Title: Neutrophil Extracellular Traps Drive Inflammation in Local Skin and Distant Kidneys in UVB-Irradiated Lupus-Prone Mice

URL Source: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573v4.full.pdf

Number of Pages: 50

Markdown Content:
1

Neutr ophil Extracellular Traps Drive Inflammation in  Local  Skin and  Distant  Kidneys 

in UVB -Irradiated Lupus -Prone Mice 

Xing Lyu 1,2, 4, Minghui Yi 1,2, , Minghui Li 1,2, 4, Ping  L.  Zhang 3, Wei Wei ,4, Victoria P. 

Werth 1,2 *, Ming -Lin Liu 1,2*  

> 1

Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VAMC, Philadelphia, PA, USA  

> 2

Department of Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 

Philadelphia, PA, USA  

> 3

Division of Anatomic Pathology, Beaumont Laboratories, Beaumont Health, Royal Oak, 

Michigan 48073, USA  

> 4

Department of  Rheumat ology  and Immunology,  Tianjin  Medical University General 

Hospital,  Tianjin, China 

Short title : NETosis drives UVB -induced lupus skin and kidney inflammation 

Correspondence to: Ming -Lin Liu, M BBS , PhD , and  Victoria P. Werth, MD,  Department of 

Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, and Philadelphia 

Veterans Administration Medical center. Room B414, 3900 Woodland Avenue, Philadelphia, 

PA 19104, eMAIL:  lium 1@pennmedicine.upenn.edu ; werth@pennmedicine.upenn.edu 

Key words : SLE,  NET osis , PKC α, CXCR4 , Skin -kidney  communication, 

Word count 

Main text : 6 423 

Abstract: 255

Significance: 1 17 

Figures: 7 

Suppl Figures: 3

References: 66 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

2

ABSTRACT 

Sunlight is a primary environmental trigger for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) . However, 

the mechanisms linking cutaneous inflammation to internal organ damage remain poorly 

defined . Here, we identify a critical role for neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation in a 

pathogenic skin -kidney axis that drives UVB -induced lupus skin and kidney inflammation . In

asymptomatic lupus -prone mice , UVB irradiation elicited concurrent skin and kidney 

inflammation , characterized by neutrophil infiltration, NET formation , release of NET -

associated cytokines and complement C3 , and proteinuria . Important ly, targ eting nuclear 

envelope rupture ―a critical structural step enabling nuclear chromatin release during 

NETosis ―through Pkc α genetic deletion significantly attenuat ed NET formation, skin and 

kidney inflammation , and proteinuria in UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr; Pkc α-/- mice. Beyond local 

NETosis , UVB primed skin -infiltrating neutrophils to express the migrat ion receptor CXCR4 

along side proinflammatory cytokines and C3. Using spatiotemporal tracking via 

photoconversion , we revealed that non -NET ting, CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils migrated 

from the skin to the kidneys , where they subsequently underwent NET osi s to release their pre -

expressed cytokin es and C3 , thereby driv ing renal inflammation and injury . Genetic Cxcr4 

deficiency impair ed this inter -organ trafficking , attenuating renal neutrophil infiltration and 

proteinuria in UVB -irradiated kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ - mice . Pharmacological CXCR4 inhibition 

further validated the therapeutic potential of blocking this migratory axis, attenuat ing lupus 

skin and kidney inflammation in UVB -irradiated lupus -prone mice. By linking environmental 

UVB exposure to systemic lupus outcomes through PKCα -driven nuclear envelope rupture for 

proinflammatory NET release and CXCR4 -mediated neutrophil trafficking for systemic 

dissemination , this work provide s strong mechanistic evidence for a skin -kidney axis in SLE .

These findings identify nuclear envelope reg ulation and neutrophil trafficking as previously 

underexplored therapeutic targets for photosensitive SLE .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

3

SIGNIFICANCE 

This study explore s a  mechanistic  skin -kidney axis  in  SLE , revealing  a causal  link between 

UV B-induced  cutaneous inflammation and  systemic  disease  exacerbations . We  demonstrat e

that  PKCα -driven  nuclear envelope rupture  is critical  for  the  release of  proinflammatory NET s,

while  CXCR4 -mediate d trafficking  of  non -NETting neutrophil s represents  a pivotal  route  for 

systemic dissemination . T he se  findings  delineate  how neutrophils transition from  local 

initiato rs of  skin  inflammation  to systemic effectors of renal  injury  by  propagatin g NET -driven 

inflammat ory cascades . This work  suggests  a shift  in  the therapeutic paradigm toward  precise 

regulation of  neutrophil migration  and  NETosis kinetics . By uncovering these underexplored 

pathways, the study  provide s a molecular framework  for  intercept ing  UVB -induced  systemic 

exacerbation  in  photosensitive SLE,  with the potential  to  mitigate  irreversible end -organ 

damage .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

4

INTRODUCTION 

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)  is a systemic autoimmune dis ease  characterized by 

inflammatory damage to multiple organs,  such as the skin and kidneys.  The pathogenesis of 

SLE involves  the  accumulation of immune cells, cytokines, immune complexes (ICs),  and 

complement , which  driv es  inflammat ory responses  and  irreversible  tissue da mage  (1).  While 

the etiology  remains  a complex interplay of  genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors  (1, 

2) , the discordance  of  SLE  in  monozygotic twins,  who share  nearly identical DNA,  highlight s

the crucial  role  of  environmental  trig gers  (1). 

Since the 1960s, sunlight ha s been recognized as a primary env ironmental trigger for 

lupus flare s (3) . Over 70% of patients with cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) are 

photosensitive (4) , where ultraviolet B (UVB) overexposure exacerbat es both local skin 

inflammation and systemic symptoms, such as lupus nephritis , in SLE patients and 

autoimmune mice (5 -8) . Epidemiological s tud ies from regions with high sun exposure further 

confirm a seasonal pattern for severe manifestations like lupus nephritis (9,10) . Despite this 

clear clinical link, the precise mechanisms by which cutaneous UVB exposure leads to 

systemic inflammation and distant internal organ injury remain a critical knowledge gap in 

SLE pathogenesis .

Neutrophils are the first circ ulating leukocytes to infiltra te the skin following UVB 

overexposure (11) and act as the primary initiator immune cells in the pre -lesion al skin, driving 

the development of early spontaneous CLE lesions in a new lupus mouse model (12). We

previously demonstra te d that UVB irradiation trigger s skin inflammation and neutrophil 

infiltration , with a fraction of these cells undergo ing NET osi s―the release of neutrophil 

extracellular traps (NETs) (13,14) . Notably, NET osi s play s an important role in the 

pathogenesis of skin lupus (15,16) and lupus nephritis (17, 18) . NETs are potent induce rs of 

type I interferon (IFN -I) (14,19) , a primary driver of lupus pathogenesis (20) . Furthermore, 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

5

both NETs and IFN -I can induce B cell activation and proliferation (21,22), leading to 

autoantibod y production and IC formation (23) . NETs also serve as critical scaffolds for 

complement activation, amplifying tissue damage and driving lupus inflammation (24,25). 

Thus , the deposition of ICs and C3 in the skin (26) or kidneys (27) contributes to inflammat ory 

responses and tissue damage in the se organs . Importantly, accumulating evidence indicates that 

histone s can directly induce NETosis (28) , and that NET -releasing neutrophils can induce 

secondary NET osis in nearby naive neutrophils, thereby amplif ying inflammatory signal ing 

(29). Consistent with this , recent in vivo work demonstrat ed a delayed second wave of NET 

formation in the liver , driven by residual NET component s from the first wave several days 

after LPS injection (30) . Thus , neutrophil NETs function not only as effectors but also as self -

propagating mediators of inflammation . This self -sustaining natur e underscores the central role 

of NETosis in the systemic autoimmune cascades characteristic of SLE. 

Building on our establish ed model of UVB -induced skin inflammation with NET 

formation (13,14), we investigate d NETosis in systemic lupus inflammation using 

asymptomatic , young female lupus -prone mice . UVB triggered concurrent skin and kidney 

inflammation , characterized by NET formation , release of NET -associated cytokines and 

complement , and proteinuria. This model mimic s sunlight -triggered lupus flares in patients (6). 

Notably , UVB induce s skin production of platelet -activating factor (PAF) (31), which triggers 

PKC α activation in neutrophils (32 ). Based on our discovery that PKCα drives nuclear 

envelope rupture ―a critical structural step required for NET release via nuclear lamina 

phosphorylation and disassembly (13) ―we investigated whether targeting nuclear envelope 

rupture through Pkc α deletion could attenuate UVB -induced skin and kidney inflammation in 

lupus -prone mice . Moreover , UVB primed skin -infiltrating neutrophil s to express CXCR4 ,

enabling the transmigrat ion of non -NETting neutrophils from skin to kidneys . Using in vivo 

spatiotemporal photoconver sion tracking , we showed that genetic Cxcr 4 deletion blocked 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

6

neutrophil transmigration from  inflam ed  skin  to the  kidney s,  reducing  renal  inflammation  in  a

non -lupus  strain . Pharmacological CXCR4 inhibition  confirmed the se  findings  in  UVB -

irradiated  lupus -prone mice. 

By elucidating  mechanistic evidence for  a skin -kidney axis  driven  by PKCα -mediated 

NETosis and CXCR4 -guided neutrophil transmigration, this study  links  environmental trigger s

to systemic lupus pathogenesis. These findings identify nuclear envelope  mod ulation and 

neutrophil  trafficking  as therapeutic targets for preventing sunlight -triggered systemic  lupus 

exacerbation , she dding  light on  previously  underexplored  mechanism s and  offering new 

therapeutic  strategies  for  photosensitive  SLE .

RESULTS 

UVB exposure triggered concurrent skin and kidney inflammation with neutrophil 

infiltration and NET release in asymptomatic young female lupus -prone mice . Expos ure 

of asymptomatic , young female lupus -prone mice to UVB (Fig 1A) elicited skin inflammation ,

characterized by increased epidermal and dermal thickness and substantial inflammatory cell 

infiltration (quantified as nucleated cell count) (Fig 1B -E) compared to non -irradiated sham 

controls. Remarkably , this loca l skin UVB irradiation also triggered a systemic response, 

manifesting as acute renal injury with significant proteinuria and glomerular hypercellularity 

(Fig 1 F-H) compared to sham controls. Further analyses demonstrated that UVB -induced skin 

inflammation was characterized by robust neutrophil infiltration (Fig 1I) and NET formation 

(Fig 1J,K) in MRL /lpr mice compared to sham controls. Notably , these skin -infiltrat ing 

neutrophils and their released NETs were highly enriched with proinflammatory cytokines ,

including IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 (Fig 1L -O), thereby establish ing NETs as critical 

reservoirs of pro -inflammatory mediators in UVB -challenged skin of lupus -prone mice .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

7

Crucially , we observe d a potent correlation between the magnitude of skin 

inflammation and the severity of systemic disease. Specifically, the severity of cutaneous 

inflammatory cell infiltration ( nucleated cell count ) correlated significantly with systemic renal 

diseas e ( proteinuria severity, Fig 1 P). This systemic impact is further highlighted by the 

correlation between skin neutrophil infiltration and proteinuria (Fig 1 Q). Collectively, t hese 

finding s suggest that skin -infiltrating immune cells , particularly neutrophils , are not merely 

local responders but critical pathogenic drivers of systemic disease progression, potentially 

mediating an inflammat ory cascade from the skin to the kidneys .

Although previous studies have implicated neutrophil s in systemic injury following 

skin thermal burn s (33,34) or UVB exposure (35) , the molecular mechanisms linking cutaneous 

UVB damage to distant organ damage remain unclear . Since neutrophil NETosis has been 

shown to contribut e to both UVB -induced skin inflammation (13,14) and lupus -associated 

nephritis (17,18) through the presentation of proinflammatory mediators , our finding s suggest 

th at UVB -triggered neutrophil infiltration and NETosis play a critical role in bridg in g local 

cutaneous injury and distant renal inflammation in lupus -prone mice . We therefore investigated 

the specific role of neutrophil NETosis in mediating inflammation in the skin and kidney .

Neutrophil NET osis drives acute kidney inflammation in lupus -prone mice follow in g

UVB irradia tion . Beyond the cutaneous response (Fig 1I -O), we found that glomerular 

neutrophil infiltration correlated with glomerular hypercellularity in the combined groups of 

MRL/lpr mice without or with UVB irradiation (Suppl Fig 1A) . Th is suggests a contribution 

of glomerular neutrophil infiltration to glomerular hypercellularity and renal inflammation. In 

addition, UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr mice exhibited significant glomerular neutrophil infiltration 

and a robust accumulation of neutrophil NET s―marked by citrullinated H3 

(citH3 )―compared to sham controls (Fig 2A-C). Crucially , these glomerular NETs act ed as 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

8

potent drivers of acute renal injury , co -localizing with elevated glomerular levels of NET -

associated proinflammatory cytokines ( IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A ), and C3 (Fig 2D -H) . The 

pathological relevance of this accumulation was underscored by potent positive correlation s

between the levels of glomerular neutrophils, NETs , IFNα , IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 and the 

severity of proteinuri a in the combined group of MRL/ lpr mice (Fig 2I -K, Suppl Fig 1B -D).

These results directly link these neutrophil NET s, their associated cytokines , and C3 to acute 

renal inflammation and injury following UVB exposure .

Thus, o ur findings highlight a key role f or infiltrat ing neutrophils and their released 

NETs in driving multi -organ inflammation in the skin and kidney s following localized UVB 

irradiat ion . Notably, through the release of NETs and associated inflammatory mediators ,

neutrophils act as critical driv ers of coordinated inflammat ory responses in both the skin and 

kidneys of asymptomatic lupus -prone mice . Taken toget he r, the coordinated response s of 

neutrophil activation and NET formation observed in both organs (Fig s 1-2, Suppl Fig 1 )

suggest s a direct mechanistic link between cutaneous and kidney in flammation .

Target ing nuclear envelope rupture via PKC α genetic deletion attenuated NETosis and 

UVB -induced lupus skin inflammation in MRL/ lpr mice with P kc α deficiency . NETosis 

is an establish ed driver of lupus pathogenesis (15,36,37) ―including in UVB -triggered skin 

and kidney infl ammation (Figs 1 -2) ―yet the upstream mechanism controlling NET release in 

vivo remain s elusive. While peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) has bee n considere d a key 

therapeutic target f or NETosis -related diseases , studies in lupus models challenge its necessity. 

In MRL/ lpr mice, genetic Pad 4 deletion failed to mitigate systemic disease, nephritis , or skin 

inflammation (38), indicating PAD 4-independent mechanisms . Our recent study identifie s that 

PKCα -mediated nuclear lamin B phosphorylation and disassembly drive nuclear envelope 

rupture , nuclear chromatin release, and subsequent NET formation (13,37) . Thus , the PKCα -

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

9

Lamin B axis represents a fundamental mechanical requirement for nuclear chromatin release 

during NETosis. Based on this mechanism (13) , we generated lupus -prone mice with a genetic 

deletion of P kc α to investigate the effects of controlling NETosi s on UVB -induced lupus skin 

and kidney inflammation .

Following UVB irradiat ion, MRL/ lpr; Pkc α-/- mice (Fig 3A) exhibited a ma rked 

reduction in lupus skin inflammation compared to MRL/lpr mice, as demonstrated by 

significantly reduced epidermal and dermal skin thickness, lower nucleated cell counts , and 

diminished neutrophil infiltration (Fig 3B -D). Notably , UVB irradiation triggered significantly 

less neutrophil NETosis (Fig 3E) in Pkc α-deficient lupus -prone mice, which corresp onded with 

a significant reduction in the accumulation of NET -associated proinflammatory factors, 

including IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 , in the skin (Fig 3F -K). This model provides the first in 

vivo evidence that regulating nuclear envelope integrity by abolishing PKCα effectively 

suppresses NETosis and mitigates lupus -related tissue damage. The se findings also confirm 

the critical role of neutrophil NETs and their associated proinflammatory mediators in driving 

lupus cutaneous pathology , highlight ing nuclear envelope regulation as a novel and potent 

therapeutic strategy for NETosis -driven lupus skin inflammation. 

Targeting PKC α-nuclear envelope pathway  suppressed  NETosis  and  ameliorated  UVB -

induced  acute  kidney inflammation in MRL/ lpr  mice . Beyond  its  cutaneous effects,  our 

findings  demonstrate the profound  systemic  therapeutic potential of  modulating  nuclear 

envelope  integrity . Genetically deleting PKC α to  stabilize  nuclear envelope  integrity  and 

inhibit NETosis  significant ly decreased  UVB -induced acute kidney inflammation and 

proteinuria  (Fig 4A -D) in lupus -prone mice. This novel intervention l ed to  marked  histological 

improvement s, including  reduced glomerular hypercellularity  (Fig 4B -C)  and attenuated 

neutrophil infi ltration in their  kidneys (Fig 4 D).  Critically , we observed  a profound  reduc tion 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

10 

in glomerular deposition of neutrophil NETs and their associated pathogenic cargo ―including 

IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 ―in the kidneys of UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice 

compared to MRL/ lpr mice (Fig 4E -I). These findings provide definiti ve genetic evidence that 

the glomerular deposition of NET s and their associated pathogenic cargo are primary driv er s

of kidney injury and proteinuria (Fig 2I -K) , establish ing targeted regulation of NETosis as a

promising therapeutic avenue for photosensitive lupus . Our study demonstrates a novel 

mechanistic paradigm by position ing nuclear envelope integrity as a promising therapeutic 

target for NETosis and NET -related pathologies , in cluding lupus .

While our  data confirm that NETotic neutrophils are essential end -effectors of kidney 

injury,  prio r studies demonstrate that only  a portion  of neutrophils undergo NETosis  in vitro 

(39,40)  and in the skin of UVB -irradiated mice  in vivo  (14).  This raises the possibil ity  that 

surviving,  non -NETt ing  neutrophils  may  serve as  a migratory  cellular  bridge , facilitating 

systemic  communication  between the inflamed skin and  distant  kidneys following UVB 

irradiation  (35) . We the refore  sought to  deline ate  the mechanistic basis  of  th is  neutrophil -

mediated cutaneous -renal  interaction , exploring how these cells orchestrate  NET  release with 

pro -inflammatory cytokines/complement,  and  systemic inflammation  following UVB 

irradiation .

UVB irradiation induc ed a migratory and pro -inflammatory neutrophil phenotype in 

lupus -prone mice . To address how local skin inflammation triggers distant organ injury , our 

findings identify CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils as a critical cellular bridge to facilitate inter -

organ communication dur in g thi s systemic e xacerb ation. As a chemokine receptor , CXCR4 is 

known to facilitate communication between different organs by mediating the reverse 

transmigration (RTM) of immune cells, including neutrophils (41,42). Moreover , increased 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

11 

CXCR4 expression on immune cells in SLE patients and lupus -prone mouse models supports 

its role in lupus development (43 -48). 

Strikingly , we  observ ed  a systemic  elevat ion of  CXCR4 expressin g neutrophils 

following UVB  irradiation  in  infiltrated  skin and kidney neutrophils  (regardless  of NETotic 

states)  and  within  their released NETs  in  MRL/ lpr  mice , compared to  sham controls (Fig 5 A-

D).  Importantly , the number  of CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils in  the  peripheral b lood of UVB -

irradiated m ice was also  significantly elevated  (Fig 5 E,F ). Therefore , these  systemic  elevations 

of  CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils  following UVB  irradiation suggest the critical role of 

CXCR4 in  facilitating  communication between the  inflamed  skin and  the  kidneys. 

To  better understand  this process , we exposed  isolated  neutrophils  from  these  MRL/ lpr 

mice  directly to  UVB  or  stimulated  them  with  PAF,  a lipid  mediator  release d from 

keratinocytes  after  UVB  irradiation  (31). We  observed  that  both  UVB and  PAF  upregulat ed 

CXCR4  expression  in mouse neutrophils  in a dose -dependent manner  (Fig 5G) . This 

upregulation  was accompanied by elevated expression of  key inflammatory mediators, 

including  IFNγ,  IL -17A, and  C3, as well as  IFNα (in the presence of DNA -NETs , as  previously 

characteriz ed  (13, 14) ) (Suppl Fig  2A-D). Crucial ly , a subset of these  primed  neutrophils  co -

expressed  CXCR4  alongside  proinflammatory  mediators  (Fig  5H-O). Th ese data  demonstrate 

that UVB  exposure― acting  both  directly and  indirectly  via PAF ―reprograms  skin -infiltrating 

neutrophils , empowering  them  with  a dual migratory -inflammatory  capability .

Therefore , the co -express ion of CXCR4 and cytokines /C3 enabl es specific neutrophil 

subsets to mediate systemic migrat ion from inflamed skin to the kidneys . Recognizing that 

only a fraction of neutrophils undergo es NETo sis ―both in vitro (39,40) and in vivo in the skin 

of UVB -irradiated mice (14) ―we propose that UVB -primed neutrophils adopt functionally 

distinct yet overlapping states that enable local inflammation and systemic dissemination. A

subset of neutrophils undergo es terminal NETosis (13) to drive local skin inflammation via the 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

12 

release of NET -associated cytokines/C3 . In parallel , the surviving , non -NET ting , CXCR4 -

expressing neutrophils retain migratory capability, under go RTM to re -enter the circulation ,

and are subsequently recruited to the kidneys , where CXCL12 levels are elevated ―either 

following UVB irradiat ion (35) or intrinsically in various lupus -prone strains , including 

MRL/ lpr mice (44) . Importantly, these phenotypic states are not mutually exclusive: CXCR4 

expression is observed across neutrophils irrespective of NETotic status, and a proportion of 

CXCR4⁺ cells also exhibit feature s of NETosis, indicating a continuum of activation rather 

than a strictly binary fate decision. Once sequestered with in the glomerular microenvironment ,

the se primed neutrophils subsequently undergo NETosis, releasing pre -expressed cytokines/C3 

with NET s, thereby transducing a cutaneous insult into renal injury .

Genetic deficiency of C xcr 4 impair ed UVB -induced neutrophil trans migration from the 

skin to the kidneys . To definitively investigate the causal link between skin UVB exposure 

and systemic renal injury, we employed a precise spatiotemporal photoconversion tracking 

model. By crossing C xcr 4-deficient mice with the photoconvertible reporter kikGR -expressing 

mice , we generated kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ - mice (Fig 6A) that were able to "tag" neutrophils in the skin 

with violet light and monitor their migration across other organ systems. These mice allow ed 

for precise spatiotemporal in vivo tracking of neutrophil migration (49) , providing a n approach 

to directly observe the effect of CXCR4 absence on cellular trafficking . Sequential i rradiation 

with both UVB and violet light triggered an inc rea se in photoconverted kikR + neutrophils in 

the circulation , as detected by flow cytometry (Fig 6B) . Critical ly , Cxcr 4 deficiency 

significantly reduced the number of circulating kikR + neutrophils in kikGR;Cxcr4 +/ - mice 

compared to their controls (Fig 6B) , indicating the crucial role of CXCR4 in neutrophil RTM 

from UVB -irradiated skin into the circulation .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

13 

Importantly, direct histological analysis revealed a significant accumulation of ly6G +

and kikR + neutrophils with in the glomerul i of UVB -irradiated control kikGR ;Cxcr 4flox mice 

following violet light exposure (F ig 6 C, E,F ). However, the numbers of accumulated ly6G + and 

kikR + neutrophil s in the glomeruli were significantly reduced in the Cxcr4 deficient 

kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ - mice (F ig 6 D,E ,F) . Th ese data provid e direct visual and quantitative evidence 

that CXCR4 is a causal mediator guid ing neutrophil transmigration from a site of skin 

inflam mation to the kidneys . Consequently, the decreased neutrophil transmigration resulted 

in significantly reduced proteinuria in UVB -irradiated kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ - mice compared to 

control s (Fig 6G) . This finding functionally confirm s the role of CXCR4 -mediated skin -to -

kidney neutrophil transmigration which drives acute kidney inflammation and renal injury .

These findings provide mechanis tic evidence lin king UVB -induced acute skin 

inflammation to systemic lupus exacerbation . We further elucidated that CXCR4 plays an 

essential role in guiding the systemic spread of inflammatory signals from localized skin 

lesion s to the kidney s. By identifying CXCR4 as the critical mediato r facilitating this skin -to -

kidney trafficking, our study suggests a paradigm shift in the therapeutic strategy of 

photosensitive SLE . Specifically, shifting from broad immunosuppression toward targeted 

blockade of CXCR4 -mediated neutrophil dissemination offers a more precise strategy to 

uncouple localized skin inflammation from systemic disease exacerbation , thereby in terrupt ing 

the progression of skin inflammation -triggered internal organ injury in photosensitive SLE. 

Pharmacological i nhibition of CXCR4 attenuated acute kidney inflammation in UVB -

irradiated lupus -prone mice . Building upon our genetic evidence identifying CXCR4 as 

primary driver of UVB -induced systemic inflammation in non -lupus mice (Fig 6) , we further 

evaluat ed the tran slational potential of pharmacological inhibition of CXCR4 by using its 

selective antagonist IT1t in UVB -irradiated lupus -prone mice (Fig 7A) . Crucially ,

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

14 

pharmacological CXCR4 inhibition significantly suppressed the acute renal sequelae of UVB 

exposure, as evidenced by marked reduction in proteinuria , glomerular hypercellularity, 

glomerular infiltration of Ly6G -positive neutrophils, and CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils in 

acute kidney inflammation triggered by UVB irradiat ion (Fig 7B-F). To elucidate the 

underlying mechanism, we performed in vitro transwell migration experiments, which 

demonstrated that IT1t significantly reduced migratory capacity of neutrophil s, thereby 

validating its role in blocking recruitment to inflamed tissues (Fig 7G). 

Our key mechanistic finding is that systemic CXCR4 pharmacological inhibition 

significantly attenuat ed acute kidney inflammation in UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr mice. This was 

ev idenced by the reduction s in proteinuria and glomerular hypercellularity, and most 

importantly the blockade of neutrophil infiltration into the kidneys. We further define a 

pathogenic cascade by showing that CXCR4 inhibition not only reduced neutrophil influx but 

also subsequently amelior at ed glomerular accumulation of NETs , and NET -associated 

inflammatory mediators, including IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A , and C3 (Fig 7H-M), compared to 

control MRL/ lpr mice receiving normal saline . Furthermore , our findings demonstrate a novel 

pathogenic link between UVB exposure and renal damage , highlighting that CXCR4 -mediated 

neutrophil recruitment driv es acute lupus kidney inflammation via the induction of NETosis 

and the release NET -associated inflammatory mediators .

In addition , CXCR4 inhibition also attenuated dermal , but not epidermal (Suppl Fig 

3A) , skin thickness and reduced nucleated cell counts in the skin (Suppl Fig 3B -D). This 

involve d a significant decrease in the infiltration of Ly6G neutrophil s, NET formation , and 

NET -associated IFNα and IL -17A in the skin of UVB -irradiated mice treated with IT1t (Suppl 

Fig 3E,G,H,J). However, no significant differences were observed in CXCR4 -expressing 

neutrophils , NET -associated IFNγ and C3 in the skin between IT1t -treated mice and control 

mice that received normal saline administration (Suppl Fig 3F ,I,K). The efficacy of CXCR4 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

15 

inhibition ―achieved via repeated systemic administration of IT1t― underscores a fundamental 

role for CXCR4 in coordinating systemic inflammatory responses to UVB. These findings 

align with previous report s demonstrating that CXCR4 inhibition attenuate s sunlight -induced 

skin cancer by preventing the infiltration of mast cells in to the skin (50). 

Collectively, our findings  elucidate  a novel  pathogenic  mechanism  that helps us 

understand  UVB -induced  systemic  disease  flare s in  photosensitive  lupus . We  demonstrate that 

this process is governed by the  CXCR4 -dependent recruitment of neutrophils,  which undergo 

NETosis  to  release NET -associated proinflammatory cytokines and C3  with in  both local  skin 

and  distant  kidneys . By  establish ing  this  causal  link , our work identifies  nuclear envelope 

regulation and  the  CXCR4 pathway  as robust therapeutic  targets . These  specific, druggable 

pathway s offer a  novel  framework for  uncoupl ing environmental triggers from  end -organ 

damage, providing a high -precision strategy to  mitigat e acute  systemic  inflammation in 

photosensitive  lupus .

DISCUSSION 

Sunlight  overexposure  exacerbates  lupus  by  inducing  localized  skin inflammation  and 

promot ing  systemic  inflammation  in various  distant  organs , particular ly  kidneys, in  both 

human s and lupus -prone mice  (5 -8) . Our study  elucidates  a novel  pathogenic  mechanism 

underlying  UVB -trigger ed  lupus exacerbation,  identifying a critical  pathway  that  links 

localized  skin inflammation to distant  kidney  injury.  Using  initially  asymptomatic, young 

female lupus -prone mice,  we  demonstrated that  infiltrat ing  neutrophil s and  the ir released  NET s

carry  proinflammatory cytokines and  cytotoxic  complement  C3 in  both  the skin and kidneys, 

driving  inflammation  in these organs  and  the development of  proteinuria. 

While n eutrophil NETosis is a recognized contributor to lupus pathogenesis (15, 36, 

37) , it s role in the acute, environmentally triggered phase of the disease has remain ed unclear .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

16 

These findings provide direct in vivo evidence identify ing neutrophil NET osi s as a ke y

mediat or of UVB -induced acute inflammation in both the skin and kidney s. We demonstrate 

that NETs decorated with pro -inflammatory cytokines (IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A) and C3 are 

deposited in both organs , and that their glomerular levels strongly correl ate with the severity 

of kidney injury, specifically proteinuria. In UVB -irradiated lupus -prone mice, non -NET ting 

neutrophils may secrete proinflammatory cytokines and C3 in to the extracellular space ,

however , these cytokines and C3 are often quickly diffused in to the systemic circulation and 

diluted by the bloodstream (14) . In contrast, neutrophil NETs serve as physical scaffold s that 

sequester and present high concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic C3 (14) 

with in the skin and kidneys . These NET -associated cytokines and C3 not only drive further 

recruitment of leukocytes but also exacerbate inflammation and tissue injury, particularly 

proteinuria . This positions NETs and their associated cytokines and C3 not merely as 

biomarkers but as potent pathogenic effectors that drive autoimmune inflammation and tissue 

damage in lupus, establ ish ing a self -amplifying cycle ―a process potentially exacerbated by 

the ability of NETotic neutrophils and their remnants to trigger secondary NETosis in naive 

neutrophils in vitro (29) and in vivo (30) . Our findings thus extend the previously well -

document ed pathogenic roles of NETosis in chronic CLE , SLE, lupus nephritis (1 5-18) , and 

UVB -induced skin inflammation models (13, 14) to its roles in acute systemic responses to 

UVB .

Recent  mechanistic  insights identify  nuclear chromatin decondensation  and  nuclear 

envelope rupture  as decisive  cellular events  required for  nuclear chromatin release and NET 

formation  (37,51) . Historically, n uclear chromatin decondensation  via  peptidyl -arginine 

deaminase 4 (PAD4) -mediated histone citrullination  has been the  primary focus  of  NETosis 

research  (37,51) . Although  early  pharmacological  studies suggested PAD4  inhibition  could 

attenuat e spontan eous  lupus skin and kidney inflammation in  aged  lupus -prone mice  (15) ,

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

17 

subsequent  genetic  and  pharmacological  studies  with  PAD4 -targeted approaches  failed to 

protect against  the development of  systemic  lupus  and  lupus  skin inflammation  in lupus -prone 

mice , suggesting PAD4 -independent pathways  (38).  Additionally,  Pad 4 genetic deficiency did 

not show significant protection in  a mouse model of arthritis (52).  These significant 

discrepanc ies  underscore  a critical gap in  our  mechanistic understanding  of  NETosis  and 

highlight the need  to  target more  fundamental , mandatory steps in the process of NET 

formation. 

Beyond chromatin decondensation , nuclear envelope rupture is a critical structural step 

facilitating nuclear chromatin release and NET formation . A s the primary physical barrier 

sequestering nuclear chromatin , the nuclear envelope relies on the structural integrity of the 

nuclear lamina, which is composed of lamin A/C and B (37,51). Although neutrophil elastase 

is a potent proteolytic enzyme and is involved in NET formation (40) , there is no evidence 

identifying lamins as direct substrates of neutrophil elastase (53). In terestingly , we recently 

identified that nuclear envelope rupture and NET formation are driven by PKC α-mediated 

phosphorylation and subsequent disassembly of nuclear lamin B, rather than proteolytic 

cleavage (13,14,37). This finding shifts the therapeutic focus toward regulating this 

phosphorylation -dependent nuclear envelope rupture , thereby prevent ing the release of nuclear 

chromatin and NET formation. 

To test the therapeuti c potential of  targeting  nuclear envelope rupture  in vivo , we 

investigat ed the effects of  Pkc α genetic de letion  on NETosis  and inflammation in the skin and 

kidney of  lupus -prone  MRL/ lpr  mice . We generated  MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice  by backcrossing  the 

Pkc α deficiency  on to  the  MRL/ lpr  background for over  ten  generations  to ensure genetic 

purity . Notably,  this genetic intervention  effectively  suppress ed  NETosis by  preserving  nuclear 

envelope integrity , which  significantly  ameliorat ed  skin and kidney inflammation  follow in g

UVB  irradiat ion in  MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice compared to  control  MRL/ lpr  mice . Mechanistically, 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

18

these findings are particularly significant as  UVB triggers PAF production in the skin (31), a 

lipid mediator known  to prime n eutrophils (54) and induce PKCα activation (32).  This 

signaling cascade, in turn, drive s the nuclear envelope rupture  that is  structurally  required  for 

NET formation in UVB -irradiated mice  (13).  To the best of our knowledge , our  findings 

provide  the first  mechanistic  evidence  supporting  the novel concept  that  nuclear envelope 

regulation  represent s a viable strategy  to  mitigat e NET osis -driven pathology in lupus.  They 

further  highlight  NETosis  as a n important  therapeutic target  in  acute  flares  in photosensitive 

lupus , and  introduce  nuclear envelope  regulation  as  a potential  strategy for  lupus  treat ment .

A skin -kidney connection in the pathological context has long been suggested by 

clinical observations, such as proteinuria following skin thermal burn s (55) , emerging evidence 

suggest s activated neutrophil s contribute to this process, potentially through the releas e of 

neutrophil gelatinase -associated lipocalin (34) . This link is supported by a recent mouse study 

where a single high -dose treatment with UVB caused transient proteinuria and demonstrated 

the transmigration of neutrophils from the inflamed skin to the kidneys (35). Collectively, these 

studies across various settings have highlighted a critical role for neutrophils in linking acute 

skin inflammation to subsequent kidney injury (34,35) , indicating dermal -renal communica -

tions across different scenarios. Building on thi s paradigm , our study provides direct correlati ve 

evidence that strengthens this link in the context of lupus. We found that the severity of skin 

inflammation (measured by nucleated cell count and neutrophil infiltration ) strongly correlated 

with the renal injury and proteinuria . This coordinated exacerbation strongly suggest s a

systemic connection between the two organs rather than two independent disease processes, 

positioning neutrophils as a crucial mediator for this skin -renal communica tion .

To address the mechanisms of inter -organ communication, we found that UVB 

irradiation primed skin -infiltrating neutrophils to express transmigrat ory CXCR4 . This 

receptor acts as a potent mediator for transmigration of various cell types, including 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

19 

neutrophils, and facilitates their trafficking between different organs (41,42) . This finding 

provides a crucial mechanistic link to the CXCR4/CXCL12 axis , a pathway increasingly 

recognized for its role in the systemic progression of lupus (43 -48). The recruit ment of 

CXCR4 -expressing immune cells, including neutrophils, into the kidneys , is driven by the 

localized expression of the ligand CXCL12 , which is highly express ed in the kidneys of both 

lupus nephritis patients and lupus -prone mice (43 -45,48). Furthermore , CXC R4 -expressing 

immune cells are recruited to the kidneys with CXCL12 expression in mice with ischemic -

renal injury (56) and with UVB -induced acute kidney injury (35) . These observations identify 

UVB -induced CXCR4 upregulation as a functional checkpoint that converts a local ized skin 

environmental insult into a systemic, organ -targeting threat . Our findings thus underscor e the 

critical role of immune cell infiltration , particularly neutrophils, in initiatin g lupus kidney 

inflammation and driving the development of lupus nephritis (57). 

A previously unrecognized finding of  th is  study  is the  co -expression of CXCR4 , pro -

inflammatory  cytokines  (IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A) , and  C3  with in  infiltrat ing  neutrophils  and  their 

associated  NET s in  both  the  skin and kidneys of UVB -irradiated lupus -prone mice. 

Mechanistically , UVB ―either directly  or indirectly through  PAF  (54) ―primes  skin -

infiltrating neutrophils  to  concurrent ly upregulat e the  transmigratory  CXCR4 and pathogenic 

proinflammatory mediators , pos ition ing  neutrophils as a critical cellular bridge  linking 

localized skin inflammation to systemic kidney injury . Consistent with prior  in vitro  and  in 

vivo  observations  (39,40,58) , as well as  our recent work in UVB -irradiated mice  (14),  only a 

portion of  neutrophils undergo es  NETosis . In this study,  we  found  that  NETotic neutrophils in 

the  skin  releas e their  pre -expressed  proinflammatory  cytokines  and  C3  to  fuel  local  skin 

inflammation . On the other hand , the  surviving,  non -NET ting  neutrophils  utilize  upregulated 

CXCR4  for RTM  from  the  inflamed skin  back  in to the circulation  (41,42) , and  are  subsequently 

recruited  to  the  kidneys of UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr  mice , a process  likely driven  by  renal 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

20 

CXCL12 expression observed both intrinsically in various lupus -prone strains and in UVB -

irradiate d WT mice (35,44). 

Once sequestered in the kidneys, the se primed neutrophils subsequently undergo 

NETosis to release their pre -expressed cytokines and C3, thereby driving acute local 

inflammat ion , kidney injury , and proteinuria in UVB -triggered systemic exacerb ation . While 

most studies report that NETosis typically occurs within 2 -3 hours of stimulation (13,14,37) ,

the literature also supports delayed NETosis occurring 4-6 hours after UVB irradiation (13) 

and even up to 24 -48 hours following stimulation with PMA , LPS, or G -CSF (59) . This 

temporal flexibility is further evidenced by a second wave of NETosis in the liver occurring 

several days after LPS injection, triggered by vascular NET remnants from the initial wave 

(30). This temporal framework explains our current findings, in which primed , non -NET ting 

neutrophils migrate from the skin to the kidneys , where they subsequent ly undergo NET osis to 

releas e their pre -expressed cytokines and C3 , thereby driving the systemic lupus exacerbation 

in UVB -irradiat ed mice .

Utilizing  the  unique spatiotemporal  in vivo  tracking technique  inherent in  the 

kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ - mouse model , our study  defini tive ly  delineates  the  causal  role of CXCR4  in 

orchestrating the systemic  propagation  of inflammation via  neutrophil  RTM  (41,42) . Our 

results  provide  direct  in vivo  evidence that CXCR4  governs  the  egress of  activated neutrophils 

from the  site of  primary  skin  inflam mation  (UVB -irradiated skin)  back  in to the circulation , a

process  essential  for the  subsequent  pathological  sequestr ation  of neutrophils  in  distant organs, 

specifically  the kidney glomeruli . Mechanistically,  the  significantly  decreased  numbers of 

kikR + neutrophils  observed  in both the circulation and  renal compartments  of  kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ -

mice , compared  to  kikGR ;Cxcr4 flox  controls , unequivocally demonstrates that  Cxcr 4 deficiency 

profoundly disrupts  neutrophil mobilization  and redistribution.  This  finding  advances  the 

emerging paradig m that  demonstrates  the involvement of  the  CXCR4 -CXCL12  axis  in 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

21 

neutrophil re -entry into the circulation and re -dep osition in the kidneys. Our genetic deficiency 

approach thus positions CXCR4 as the key molecular determinant controlling access to this 

systemic circuit. While focused on UVB -induced acute effects, our findings are in line with 

previous clinical and animal studie s that the CXCR4 -CXCL12 axis contributes broadly to SLE 

pathogenesis, including increased CXCR4 expression on immune cells and elevated CXCL12 

expression in the kidneys in both SLE patients and lupus -prone mouse strains (43 -46,48). 

Our study indicates localized skin inflammation from a self -limiting event into a critical 

driver of distant organ injury by identifying a non -redundant role of CXCR4 in orchestrating 

neutrophil RTM in photosensitive lupus . Th rough definitive genetic loss -of -function studies, 

we demonstrate that Cxcr 4 deficiency creates a functional blockage that prevents activated 

neutrophils from re -enterin g the circulation, thereby depleting the systemic pool of primed 

pathogenic effectors . This establish es a clear causal chain from cutaneous UVB exposure to 

renal neutrophil accumulation , subsequent NET formation, and proteinuria . We further 

translate this mechanistic insight into a potential therapeutic strategy us ing the selective 

CXCR4 antagonist IT1t , which provide d significant therapeutic benefits in UVB -irradiated 

lupus -prone mice. Interestingly , IT1t also reduced dermal skin thickness and neutrophil 

infiltration and NET deposition specifically within the dermis, without affecting the epidermis .

This compartment -specific effect confirms th at CXCR4 signaling is essential for immune cell 

migration into the skin derm is , consistent with prior reports (50) . While previous studies 

identified CXCR4 as a negative regulator of TLR7 -mediated IFN -I signaling in plasmacytoid 

dendritic cells (60), our work expands this framework by showing that CXCR4 inhibition also 

block s neutrophil transmigration to the kidneys. 

Ultimately, these findings support a n integrated two -step model of disease propagation :

UVB induces skin -infiltrating neutrophil NETosis and promot es the transmigration of non -

NET ting neutrophil s from the skin to the kidneys , where they subsequently undergo NETosis 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

22 

to  propagat e kidney inflammation and injury.  By elucidat ing  the requirements for  PKCα -driven 

nuclear envelope rupture  during  NET release  and  CXCR4 -mediated  neutrophil  trafficking , this 

study  suggests a  shift  in  ther apeutic  strategy  to ward  the  targeted inhibition of  these non -

redundant steps . Specifically,  PKCα  inhibition to control terminal NETosis and  CXCR4 

blockade  to preven t neutrophil  transmigration  offer  a high -precis ion  strategy  to neutralize 

systemic lupus inflammation and  protect  against  distant  end -organ  damage  from cutaneous 

environmental triggers  in  photosensitive SLE. 

METHODS 

Sex as a biological variable . Given the profound female bias in human lupus (⁓90% patients) 

and the accelerated disease kinetics in female MRL/ lpr lupus -prone mice , all experiments 

within the lupus context exclusively utiliz ed female mice . However, for experiments studying 

in vivo neutrophil transmigration using Cxcr4 deficient strains on a non -lupus background , both 

sexes were included .

Mice . MRL/ lpr  lupus -prone  mice  and  Pkc α-deficient mice (B6;129 -Prkca  tm1Jmk /J mice, JAX 

#009068) (61) , along with  their corresponding littermate controls, were purchased from  the 

Jackson Laboratory , and housed in a pathogen -free environment, and  provided  food and wa ter 

ad libitum . To generate  the  MRL/ lpr ;P kc α-/-, lupus -prone mice with  Pkc α deficiency , Pkc α-/-

mice  were  backcrossed  on to  the  MRL/ lpr  genetic background for at least 10 generations.  For 

in vivo  spatiotemporal  tracking  of  neutrophil  transmigration  from the  skin to the kidneys, we 

generated  kikGR ;Cxcr 4+/ - (Kikume Green -Red)  mice , as homozygous  Cxcr4  deficiency results 

in  perinatal lethality.  Briefly,  Cxcr4 flox  mice  (JAX, #008767 ) were crossed  with  CMV -Cre  mice 

(JAX, #006054 ) to  create  Cxcr 4-deficient mice, which  were then crossed with  kikGR -

expressing mice  (JAX, #035393)  (49) . This  model  enabled  the  visualization  of neutrophil 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

23 

trafficking via k ikGR fluorescence , with kikGR ;Cxcr 4flox mice serv ing as control s. All animal 

experiments were approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) of 

the Philadelphia VA Medical Center. 

UVB exposure and sample harvest . The dorsal skins of 8 -week -old , asymptomatic young 

female MRL/ lpr or MRL/ lpr;P kc α-/- mice were subjected to UVB irradiation (150 mJ/cm 2/day) 

or not ( sham control) for 5 consecutive days under anesthetization , as previous ly described (13, 

14,62). In separate pharmacological studies , eight -week -old asymptomatic female MRL/ lpr 

mice received daily intraperitoneal injections of either the CXCR4 selective antagonist IT1t 

(10 mg/kg/day) or a sterile normal saline ( vehicle control) . Pharmacological t reatment began 

one day prior to the 5 -day UVB regimen and continued for 6 consecutiv e days . Each 

experimental cohort consist ed of 5-10 mice. 

To enable the spatiotemporal tracking of neutrophils migration in vivo from the skin 

and their infiltration to the kidneys, kikGR ;Cxcr4 +/ - and kikGR ;Cxcr4 flox control mice were 

subjected to a sequential UVB irradiation and violet light photoconversion over five 

consecutive days. Each day, the shaved dorsal skin was first exposed to UVB irradiation (150 

mJ/cm 2/day (13,14). Th en , the k ikGR green protein expressing in the infiltrating neutrophils 

was converted to red fluorescence by applying violet light (405 nm) as described (35) . The 

violet -blue light was supplied by a 50 W LED lamp (0.37 numerical aperture fiber, Mightex) 

at 100 mW , illuminating round skin spots (∼2cm in diameter ) on the marked area of UVB -

irradiated dorsal skin for approximately 15 min per exposure. This sequential exposure 

converts the kikGR protein from green to red fluorescence, enabling the in vivo spatiotemporal 

tracking of UVB -activated neutrophils as they migrate from the skin to the kidneys. 

One day after the last UVB exposure, all mice w ere  anesthetized and  the  systemic 

circulation perfused with EDTA -PBS (50 units/ml) via left -sided cardiac puncture (63). Then 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

24 

the  perfused  kidneys and dorsal skin  were harvested  for following experiments. For histologic 

studies,  the  skin or kidney tissues were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) for 24h before 

paraffin -embedded sectioning to 5 μm thick sections for all mice (13, 14).  Proteinuria  score 

was measured  for all mice  before sacrifice using  Chemstrip 2GP (Roche, Indianapolis, IN). A 

scale of 0 –3 was used  to  correspond to  the following total urinary protein  levels: 0 (negative) ,

5–20 mg/dL  (trace ), 30 mg/dL  (+) , 100 mg/dL  (++) , and 500 mg/dL  (+++) .

Cell Culture and Treatment . Mouse bone marrow (BM) neutrophils from the  femur  and  tibia 

BM of MRL/ lpr  mice were isolated as described in our  previous  publications (13,14), and were 

purified with a neutrophil isolation kit (Milteny i Biotec ). All of the above primary mouse 

neutrophils were treated without or with 5 or10 μM  PAF , or irradiated without or with UVB at 

30 -60 mJ/cm 2, and cultured for 20h  (13,14)  for analys is of neutrophil expression of IFNγ and 

IL -17A cytokines, complement  C3  (C3c) , or CXCR4. For induction of IFNα  in neutrophils ,

above  neutrophil s were  co -incubated  with  purified  DNA -NETs that were prepared and isolated 

as described  before  (13, 14). Then, neutrophils were fixed with 2% PFA and stored at  -20 °C 

for later anal ysis. 

Flow cytometry analysis . To  detect  UVB -induced  neutrophil expression of  CXCR4,  IFNα, 

IFNγ, IL -17A,  and  C3,  primary MRL/ lpr  mouse  neutrophils were treated without or with  PAF 

(10 μM PAF) or UVB (60 mJ/cm 2), and incubated for 20h , follow ed  by fixation with 2% PFA. 

Then these cells  were first  permeabilized with 0.1%  Tween -20 and  co -stained by PE -labeled 

anti -mouse  Ly6G,  FITC -labeled anti -mouse  IFNα,  IFNγ, I L-17A, or  C3,  and APC -labeled anti -

mouse CXCR4. Analys es of expression s of  CXCR4, and/or  cytokines,  C3  in neutrophils were 

based on gated cells that were  Ly6G positive cells. Flow cytometry  analyses  were conducted 

by FACS  Canto , and data were analyzed by Flowjo  software  as described before (14) .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

25 

Transmigration Assays . To study the effects of CXCR4 -CXCL12 signaling pathway on 

neutrophil migration in the context of UVB, the transmigration ability of primary neutrophils 

from MRL/ lpr mice was examined by using Boyden chamber as previously described (13,14, 

44) . Primary neut rophils from MRL/ lpr mice were first stimulated by 10 μM PAF for 20h to 

induce their CXCR4 expression. To study the effects of CXCR4 inhibitor, neutrophils (4 x 

10 5) from MRL/ lpr mice with PAF pretreatment were treated or not by 10 μM IT1t, a selective 

CX CR4 antagonist, for 30 min before adding to the upper chamber with 3 μm pore inserts of 

24 -well trans -well plates, followed by stimulation with CXCL12 (300 ng/ml) in the bottom 

well for 5h. The pore transmigration ability was expressed as relative transmig ration compared 

to that in control neutrophils of the mice without treatment as described before (14) .

Immunohistochemistry analys es of the skin and kidneys . The paraffin -embedded skin or kidney 

tissue sections of all mice were stained either by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) or by 

fluorescent staining as described before (13,14) . Infiltration of inflammatory cells in skin of all 

mice was counted for the nucleated cel ls in the epidermis, dermis, or fat of the H&E stained 

skin sections as described in our published works (13,14) . The glomerular cellularity, including 

podocytes, endothelial cells, mesangial cells, and infiltrated cells of the kidney cross sections 

of all mice, was counted as described before with modifications (64) . In fluorescent staining, 

the neutrophil markers PE -labeled anti -ly6G or Alexa -647 -labeled myeloperoxidase (MPO) 

were used for detection of neutrophils and NETosis in combination with FITC -labeled citH3 ,

and DNA staining with DAPI as described before (13) . FITC -labeled anti -mouse antibodies 

against IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, C3 , or CXCR4 were used to stain the corresponding molecules in 

the skin or kidneys. The fluorescent ly matched isotype control immunoglobulins were used as 

isotype control staining. Slides were mounted with Gold Antifade Mountant (Invitrogen). 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

26 

The fluorescent images were analyzed with an Olympus Fluoview 1000 confocal 

microscope or Leica fluorescent microscope. To analyze images for molecular quantification 

in IHC analyses, the 2D high resolutio n fluorescent images from at least 5 -6 random non -

adjacent areas of dermis per skin section, or 20 random glomeruli per mouse kidney section, 

were captured with an Olympus confocal or Leica fluorescent microscopes and saved as .tiff 

files. The images were analyzed with NIH ImageJ software by following step -by -step 

workflow according to the published protocols (65,66) . Quantification of the molecules of 

interest, i.e. neutrophils, NETs, cytokines, or C3, and CXCR4 were based on an automatic 

threshold analysis of immunofluorescence images to automatically identify the top brightest 

structures of each image as described in our published work (13,14) .

Statistical analyses . GraphPad Prism 6 was used to perform statist ical analysis. Normally 

distributed data are shown as means ± standard deviations (SD). Comparisons between two 

groups were conducted with student 's T test. Comparisons amongst three or more groups were 

performed using ANOVA, followed by Student -Newman -Keu ls (SNK) test. Pearson ’s 

correlation coefficient was used for analyses of a linear association between two variables .

Statistical significance was considered at a level of P-value < 0.05. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

27 

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS 

The research was conducted at the University of Pennsylvania and VAMC in Philadelphia . Liu 

conceived and designed the study. Lyu, Li, Yi, and Liu performed the laboratory experiments 

and acquired the experimental data. For the microscopic image analysis , Lyu, Liu, Yi took the 

images, Lyu and Li conducted further quantification and statistical analysis. Liu and Lyu 

analyzed and interpreted the data and finalized the paper. Lyu, Li, Zhang, Wei, Werth and Liu 

were involved in the investigation, preparation and revision of the manuscript. All authors read 

and approved the final manuscript. 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

The authors would like to acknowledge Penn Skin Biology and Diseases Resource -based 

Center for their skin histology service. The authors would thank Debra A. Pawlowski ( animal 

facility, Philadelphia VA Medical Center) for her kindly help with our animal experiments. 

This work was supported by Lupus Research Alliance ( 416805) and NIH R21AI144838 (to 

MLL), Veterans Affairs Merit Review Award (1I01BX005921 ) and NIH R01 5R01AR076766 

(to VPW) , NIH 1R41AR082749 -01 (to Werth, Liu) .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

28 

FIGURE LEGENDS 

Figure 1. UVB irradiation triggered acute skin and kidney inflammation , neutrophil 

infiltration and NET formation in young female lupus -prone mice . A. Asymptomatic 

young female MRL/ lpr mice were irradiated by UVB (150 mJ/cm 2/day) for 5 days , with urine, 

skin and kidney samples collected on day 6 . B-E. Representative H&E images (B) and 

summary data showing increased epiderm al (C), derm al (D) skin thickness , and inflammatory 

cell infiltration (E, nucleated cell count ) in the skin of MRL/ lpr mice without (sham) or with 

UVB irradiation. F-H. Summary of proteinuria scores ( F) and glomerular cellularity (H) with 

representative glomerular H&E images (G) in asymptomatic young female MRL/ lpr mice 

without or with UVB irradiation. I-O. Summary analysis of skin neutrophils (I) , citH3 + NETs 

(J,K) , and NET -associated IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 (L -O) in the skin of MRL/ lpr mice 

without or with UVB - irradiation. In panel s I-O, neutrophils, NETs and NET -associated IFNα, 

IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 in kidney sections from all mice were stained with PE -labeled anti -ly6G, 

FITC -labeled antibodies against citH3, IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, C3, and DAPI for DNA. Yellow 

arrows indicate neutrophi l NETs (K). P-Q. Pearson c orrelations between dermal nucleated cell 

count ( P) or neutrophil infiltration (Q) and proteinuria scores . Scale bars, 100 μm (B,K) , and 

50 μm (G). Results represent 5 biological replicates per group. Panels C,D -F,H -J,L -O display 

means ± SD, P<0.05 or <0.01 were determined by student’s t -test for two -group comparisons. 

Figure 2. Neutrophil infiltration and NET formation drives acute kidney inflammation 

in asymptomatic young female lupus -prone mice with UVB irradiat ion . A-H. Summary 

analysis and r epresentative images of neutrophil s (A) , citH3 + NETs (B -C) , and NET -associated 

IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, and C3 (D -H) , in the kidney s of MRL/ lpr mice without or with UVB 

irradiation . Sections were stained with PE -labeled anti -ly6G, FITC -labeled antibodies against 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

29 

citH3 , IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A , C3 , and DAPI for DNA . In panels B and H, y ellow arrows indicate 

NETs, and l ight blue arrows indicate intact non -NET ting neutrophils. Scale bars, 50 μm . I-K.

Pearson correlations between renal NETs, NET -associated IFNα and C3 deposition in kidneys 

and proteinuria scores in combined groups of mice. Results represent 5 biological replicates 

per group. Panels A ,C -G display mean ± SD, P<0.05 or P<0.01 were determined by student’s 

t-test. 

Figure 3 . Controll ing NETosis via nuclear envelope regulation reduc ed UVB -induc ed 

lupus skin inflammation in MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice.  A. Asymptomatic  female  MRL/ lpr  and 

MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice  receiv ed UVB  irradiation  (150 mJ/cm 2/day , 5 days ), then urine, skin and 

kidney samples were  harvested  on  day 6 following cardiac perfusion.  B-D. Histological 

quantification  of skin thickness of epidermis (B), dermis (C), and proinflammatory cell 

infiltration (D, nucleated cells) in MRL/ lpr  vs  MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice without or with  UVB 

irradiation.  E-K. Analyses of  skin  neutrophils (E),  and NET -associated IFNα  (F -H) , IFNγ,  IL -

17A, and C3  (I-K) . Skin  sections  were stained with PE -labeled anti -ly6G, FITC -labeled 

antibodies against  IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, or C3, and DAPI for DNA. Scale bars, 100 μm.  Data 

represent 5 -10 biological replicates.  Panels B -F and  I-K display mean ± SD ; P<0.01  or P<0.001 

by  one -way  ANOVA  with  SNK  post -hoc  test. 

Figure 4. Inhibiti ng NETosis through nuclear envelope regulation attenuated acute 

kidney inflammation in UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice.  A-C. Quantification  of 

proteinuria scores (A) or glomerular cellularity (B) , with  representative glomerular images (C) 

for  MRL/ lpr  vs  MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice without  or with  UVB  irradiation . D-I. Analysis  of 

glomerular  neutrophils  (D) , and  NET -associated IFN α (E,F) , IFN γ, IL -17A, C3 ( G-I) in 

MRL/ lpr  vs  MRL/ lpr ;Pkc α-/- mice without  or with  UVB  irradiation.  Kidney sections  were 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

30 

stained with PE -labeled anti -ly6G, FITC -labeled antibodies against IFN α, IFN γ, IL -17A, or 

C3, and DAPI for DNA. Scale bars, 50 μm. Results represent 5 -10 biological replicates. Panels 

A,B,D ,F-I display mean ± SD ; P<0.05, P<0.01 , and P<0.001 by one -way ANOVA with SNK 

post -hoc test. 

Figure 5. UVB -induced CXCR4 upregulation and co -expression with cytokines and C3 

in primary neutrophils from lupus -prone mice . A-D. Immunofluorescence images and 

summary analysis of MPO and CXCR4 co -expression and deposition of neutrophil NETs in 

the inflamed skin and kidneys of UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr mice. Skin and kidney sections were 

stained with Alexa 647 -labeled MPO, FITC -labeled antibodies against CXCR4, and DAPI for 

DNA. E,F. Flow cytometry histogram s of CXCR4 expression in peripheral blood neutrophils 

from MRL/ lpr mice without or with UVB irradiation (E,F). Peripheral blood neutrophils were 

stained with PE -labeled anti -mouse ly6G and APC -labeled rat anti -mouse CXCR4 or APC -

labeled rat IgG2b isotype control . G-O. Representative histogram and summary analyses of

flow cytometry data for primary neutrophils from MRL/ lpr mice stimulated in vitro with PAF 

(10 μM PAF) or UVB (60 mJ/cm 2) and incubated for 20h . Panels show neutrophil expression 

of CXCR4 (G) , and cytokines IFNα ( H,I ), IFNγ ( J,K ), IL -17A (L,M ), and C3 (N,O ). Cells were 

stained with PE -labeled anti -mouse ly6G, APC -labeled anti -mouse CXCR4, and FITC -labeled 

anti -mouse IFNα, IFNγ, IF -17A, or C3 . All neutrophils in panels E-O were gated on ly6G +

cells. Data represent 4-6 biological replicates. Panels B, D,F, H-O display means ± SD, P<0.05, 

P<0.01, P<0.001 determined by student’s t -test for two -group comparisons. 

Figure 6. Cxcr 4 genetic deficiency in pair ed neutrophil transmigration from skin to 

kidneys follow in g UVB irradiat ion. A. Young kikGR ;Cxcr4 +/ - and kikGR ;Cxcr4 flox control 

mice express ing a photo -convertible reporter were irradiated by UVB (150 mJ/cm 2/day) and 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

31 

violet light for 5 days , then urine, skin and kidney samples were harvested on day 6. B. Flow 

cytometry analys is of peripheral blood kikR + neutrophils from kikGR ;Cxcr4 flox and 

kikGR ;Cxcr4 +/ - mice without or with UVB and violet light irradiation . Analysis was performed 

to assess systemic circulation, gat ing on Ly6G + cells (PE -labeled anti -mouse ly6G) that had 

photoconverted from kikG + to kikR +. C-F. Immunofluorescence and summary analys is of 

photoconverted kikR + neutrophil infiltration in to kidneys . Kidney sections were stained with 

Pacific Blue labeled anti -mouse ly6G, and Alexa 647 -labeled CXCR4. Blue arrows indicate 

glomeruli with deposition of photoconverted kikR + neutrophils , while yellow arrows denote 

deposition of neutroph il NET -like structures in glomeruli . Scale bars, 50 μm. G. Quantification 

of proteinuria scores in control kikGR ;Cxcr4 flox and kikGR ;Cxcr4 +/ - mice without or with UVB 

and violet light irradiation . Data represent 6 biological replicates in each group (3 male and 3 

female mice) . Panels E-G display mean ± SD, P<0.05, P<0.01 , and P<0.0 01 determined by 

one -way ANOVA with SNK post -hoc test. 

Figure 7. Pharmacological CXCR4 inhibition attenuated acute kidney inflammation in 

lupus -prone mice irradiated by UVB . A. Asymptomatic female MRL/ lpr mice irradiated by 

UVB (150 mJ/cm 2/day , 5 days ), with intraperitoneal administration of CXCR4 antagonist IT1t 

(10 mg/kg/day , 6 days ) beg an one day prior to the first session of UVB irradiation Then , urine, 

skin and kidney samples were harvest ed on day 6 post cardiac perfusion. B-F. Quantification 

of proteinuria scores (B ), glomerular cellularity (C ,D ), renal Ly6G -neutrophils ( E) and 

CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils ( F) in UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr mice without ( control ) or with 

IT1t admin istration . G. Relative migration analysis of mouse neutrophils with CXCR4 

expression , induced by 10 μM PAF stimulation for 20h , was conducted using a Boyden 

chamber. Cells were pretreated without or with IT1t , and then stimulat ed with CXCL12 at 300 

ng/ml . H-M. Analyses of glomerular deposition of neutrophil NETs, and NET -associated 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

32 

IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, or C3 in glomeruli of  UVB -irradiated MRL/ lpr  mice without (control) or 

with  IT1t  pre -administration.  Sections  (E,F,H -M) were  immuno stained with PE -labeled anti -

ly6G, FITC -labeled antibodies against  CXCR4,  citH3, IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A,  or  C3, and DAPI 

for DNA.  Scale bars,  50  μm  (D), and  100 μm  (I) . Data  represent 3 -5 biological replicates. 

Panels B ,C ,E-H,J-M display means ± SD,  P<0.05, P<0.01 by  student’s t -test for two -group 

comparisons. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

33 

Figure 1 

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 34 

Figure 2. 

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 35 

Figure 3 .

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 36 

Figure 4 .

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 37 

Figure 5 .

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 38 

Figure 6 .

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 39 

Figure 7 .

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint 40 

REFERENCES 

1. Tsokos GC (2020) Autoimmunity and organ damage in systemic lupus erythematosus. 

Nature immunology 21(6):605 -614. 

2. Dai C , et al. (2014) Genetics of systemic lupus erythematosus: immune responses and 

end organ resistance to damage. Current opinion in immunology 31:87 -96. 

3. Baer RL & Harber LC (1965) Photobiology of lupus erythematosus. Arch ives of 

dermatology 92(2):124 -128. 

4. Foering K , et al. (2013) Characterization of clinical photosensitivity in cutaneous lupus 

erythematosus. J Am Acad Dermatol 69(2):205 -213. 

5. Ansel JC, Mountz J, Steinberg AD, DeFabo E, & Green I (1985) Effects of UV r adiation 

on autoimmune strains of mice: increased mortality and accelerated autoimmunity in 

BXSB male mice. The Journal of investigative dermatology 85(3):181 -186. 

6. Schmidt E, Tony HP, Brocker EB, & Kneitz C (2007) Sun -induced life -threatening lupus 

neph ritis. Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 1108:35 -40. 

7. He J, Guo Y, Chen J, Xu J, & Zhu X (2025) Exploring the correlation between UVB 

sensitivity and SLE activity: Insights into UVB -driven pathogenesis in lupus 

erythematosus. Journal of autoimmu nity 153:103393. 

8. Sim JH , et al. (2021) Immune Cell -Stromal Circuitry in Lupus Photosensitivity. J

Immunol 206(2):302 -309. 

9. Chiche L , et al. (2012) Seasonal variations of systemic lupus erythematosus flares in 

southern France. European journal of inter nal medicine 23(3):250 -254. 

10. Abdelaziz TS , et al. (2023) Seasonal variation of lupus nephritis in a cohort of Egyptian 

patients. Clin Rheumatol 42(4):1013 -1018. 

11. Hawk JL, Murphy GM, & Holden CA (1988) The presence of neutrophils in human 

cutaneous ul traviolet -B inflammation. The British journal of dermatology 118(1):27 -30. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

41 

12. Han X , et al. (2019) PD -1H (VISTA) -mediated suppression of autoimmunity in systemic 

and cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Science translational medicine 11(522). 

13. Li Y , et al. (2020) Nuclear envelope rupture and NET formation is driven by PKCα‐ 

mediated lamin B disassembly. EMBO reports 21(e48779). 

14. Li M, Lyu X, Liao J, Werth VP, & Liu ML (2022) Rho Kinase regulates neutrophil NET 

formation that is involved in UVB -induced skin inflammation. Theranostics 12(5):2133 -

2149. 

15. Knight JS , et al. (2015) Peptidylarginine deiminase inhibition disrupts NET formation 

and protects against kidney, skin and vascular disease in lupus -prone MRL/lpr mice. 

Annals of the rheumatic diseases 74(12 ):205365. 

16. Safi R, Al -Hage J, Abbas O, Kibbi AG, & Nassar D (2019) Investigating the presence of 

neutrophil extracellular traps in cutaneous lesions of different subtypes of lupus 

erythematosus. Exp Dermatol 28(11):1348 -1352. 

17. Westhorpe CL , et al. (2017) In Vivo Imaging of Inflamed Glomeruli Reveals Dynamics 

of Neutrophil Extracellular Trap Formation in Glomerular Capillaries. The American 

journal of pathology 187(2):318 -331. 

18. Pieterse E , et al. (2017) Neutrophil Extracellular Traps Drive Endoth elial -to -

Mesenchymal Transition. Arteriosclerosis, thrombosis, and vascular biology 37(7):1371 -

1379. 

19. Lindau D , et al. (2013) TLR9 independent interferon alpha production by neutrophils on 

NETosis in response to circulating chromatin, a key lupus autoan tigen. Annals of the 

rheumatic diseases .

20. Barrat FJ, Crow MK, & Ivashkiv LB (2019) Interferon target -gene expression and 

epigenomic signatures in health and disease. Nature immunology 20(12):1574 -1583. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

42 

21. Kiefer K, Oropallo MA, Cancro MP, & Marshak -Rot hstein A (2012) Role of type I 

interferons in the activation of autoreactive B cells. Immunology and cell biology 

90(5):498 -504. 

22. Gestermann N , et al. (2018) Netting Neutrophils Activate Autoreactive B Cells in Lupus. 

J Immunol 200(10):3364 -3371. 

23. Bertelli R , et al. (2021) Neutrophil Extracellular Traps in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus 

Stimulate IgG2 Production From B Lymphocytes. Front Med (Lausanne) 8:635436. 

24. Leffler J , et al. (2012) Neutrophil extracellular traps that are not degraded in syste mic 

lupus erythematosus activate complement exacerbating the disease. J Immunol 

188(7):3522 -3531. 

25. Yuen J , et al. (2016) NETosing Neutrophils Activate Complement Both on Their Own 

NETs and Bacteria via Alternative and Non -alternative Pathways. Frontiers in 

immunology 7:137. 

26. Helm KF & Peters MS (1993) Deposition of membrane attack complex in cutaneous 

lesions of lupus erythematosus. J Am Acad Dermatol 28(5 Pt 1):687 -691. 

27. Zhao Y, Wei W, & Liu ML (2020) Extracellular vesicles and lupus nephritis - New 

insights into pathophysiology and clinical implications. Journal of 

autoimmunity :102540. 

28. Shrestha B , et al. (2019) Recombinant Thrombomodulin Suppresses Histone -Induced 

Neutrophil Extracellular Trap Formation. Frontiers in immunology 10:2535. 

29. De ng P , et al. (2024) Auto -amplification and spatial propagation of neutrophil 

extracellular traps. Commun Biol 7(1):386. 

30. Santocki M, Such A, Drab D, Burczyk G, & Kolaczkowska E (2025) NETs persisting in 

vasculature undergo self -renewal with consequences for subsequent infection: a mouse 

model study. Blood 145(18):2070 -2085. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

43 

31. Marathe GK , et al. (2005) Ultraviolet B radiation generates platelet -activating factor -like 

phospholipids underlying cutaneous damage. The Journal of biological chemistry 

280(42): 35448 -35457. 

32. Gay JC & Stitt ES (1988) Platelet -activating factor induces protein kinase activity in the 

particulate fraction of human neutrophils. Blood 71(1):159 -165. 

33. Yavuz S , et al. (2014) Neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin as an indicato r of acute 

kidney injury and inflammation in burned children. Burns 40(4):648 -654. 

34. Niculae A , et al. (2022) Burn -Induced Acute Kidney Injury -Two -Lane Road: From 

Molecular to Clinical Aspects. International journal of molecular sciences 23(15). 

35. Skop elja -Gardner S , et al. (2021) Acute skin exposure to ultraviolet light triggers 

neutrophil -mediated kidney inflammation. Proceedings of the National Academy of 

Sciences of the United States of America 118(3). 

36. Mutua V & Gershwin LJ (2020) A Review of Ne utrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs) in 

Disease: Potential Anti -NETs Therapeutics. Clinical reviews in allergy & immunology .

37. Singh J , et al. (2023) Moonlighting chromatin: when DNA escapes nuclear control. Cell 

death and differentiation :1 -15. 

38. Gordon RA , et al. (2017) Lupus and proliferative nephritis are PAD4 independent in 

murine models. JCI insight 2(10). 

39. Sorensen OE & Borregaard N (2016) Neutrophil extracellular traps - the dark side of 

neutrophils. The Journal of clinical investigation 126(5) :1612 -1620. 

40. Yipp BG & Kubes P (2013) NETosis: how vital is it? Blood 122(16):2784 -2794. 

41. De Filippo K & Rankin SM (2018) CXCR4, the master regulator of neutrophil 

trafficking in homeostasis and disease. European journal of clinical investigation 48 

Suppl 2:e12949. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

44 

42. Wang J , et al. (2017) Visualizing the function and fate of neutrophils in sterile injury and 

repair. Science (New York, N.Y 358(6359):111 -116. 

43. Chong BF & Mohan C (2009) Targeting the CXCR4/CXCL12 axis in systemic lupus 

erythemat osus. Expert opinion on therapeutic targets 13(10):1147 -1153. 

44. Wang A , et al. (2009) CXCR4/CXCL12 hyperexpression plays a pivotal role in the 

pathogenesis of lupus. J Immunol 182(7):4448 -4458. 

45. Wang A , et al. (2010) Dysregulated expression of CXCR4/C XCL12 in subsets of 

patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Arthritis and rheumatism 62(11):3436 -3446. 

46. Zhao LD , et al. (2017) Contribution and underlying mechanisms of CXCR4 

overexpression in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus. Cellular & m olecular 

immunology 14(10):842 -849. 

47. Jang SH , et al. (2024) Mitochondria Activity and CXCR4 Collaboratively Promote the 

Differentiation of CD11c(+) B Cells Induced by TLR9 in Lupus. Immune Netw 

24(4):e25. 

48. Hu HM , et al. (2025) Dual blockade of DPP -4 and CXCL12/CXCR4 axes synergistically 

protects podocytes in lupus nephritis. Frontiers in pharmacology 16:1732243. 

49. Griswold SL, Sajja KC, Jang CW, & Behringer RR (2011) Generation and 

characterization of iUBC -KikGR photoconvertible transgenic mice for live time -lapse 

imaging during development. Genesis 49(7):591 -598. 

50. Sarchio SN , et al. (2014) Pharmacologically antagonizing the CXCR4 -CXCL12 

chemokine pathway with AMD3100 inhibits sunlight -induced skin cancer. The Journal 

of investigative dermatology 134(4):1091 -1100. 

51. Liu ML, Lyu X, & Werth VP (2021) Recent progress in the mechanistic understanding 

of NET formation in neutrophils. The FEBS journal 10.1111/febs.16036. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

45 

52. Rohrbach AS, Hemmers S, Arandjelovic S, Corr M, & Mowen KA (2012) PAD4 is not 

essential for disease in the K/BxN murine autoantibody -mediated model of arthritis. 

Arthritis research & therapy 14(3):R104. 

53. Jerke U , et al. (2015) Neutrophil serine proteases exert proteolytic activity on endothelial 

cells. Kidney international 88(4) :764 -775. 

54. Metzemaekers M, Gouwy M, & Proost P (2020) Neutrophil chemoattractant receptors in 

health and disease: double -edged swords. Cellular & molecular immunology 17(5):433 -

450. 

55. Jackson SH, Farmer AW, Slater RJ, & Dewolfe MS (1961) The resolutio n of urinary or 

serum proteins by chromatography on DEAE cellulose columns with particular reference 

to urinary proteins after thermal burns. Can J Biochem Physiol 39:881 -889. 

56. Togel F, Isaac J, Hu Z, Weiss K, & Westenfelder C (2005) Renal SDF -1 signals 

mobilization and homing of CXCR4 -positive cells to the kidney after ischemic injury. 

Kidney international 67(5):1772 -1784. 

57. Jamaly S, Rakaee M, Abdi R, Tsokos GC, & Fenton KA (2021) Interplay of immune and 

kidney resident cells in the formation of tert iary lymphoid structures in lupus nephritis. 

Autoimmunity reviews 20(12):102980. 

58. Phillipson M & Kubes P (2011) The neutrophil in vascular inflammation. Nature 

medicine 17(11):1381 -1390. 

59. Kolman JP , et al. (2022) NET Release of Long -Term Surviving Ne utrophils. Frontiers in 

immunology 13:815412. 

60. Smith N , et al. (2019) Control of TLR7 -mediated type I IFN signaling in pDCs through 

CXCR4 engagement -A new target for lupus treatment. Sci Adv 5(7):eaav9019. 

61. Braz JC , et al. (2004) PKC -alpha regulates cardiac contractility and propensity toward 

heart failure. Nature medicine 10(3):248 -254. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

46 

62. Li Y, Travers JB, Werth VP, & Liu ML (2018) PKCα deficiency protected mice from 

UVB induced -Skin Inflammation through attenuation of neutrophil NETosis. Arthritis 

Rheumatol 70(suppl 9). 

63. Zhao J , et al. (2013) P2X7 blockade attenuates murine lupus nephritis by inhibiting 

activation of the NLRP3/ASC/caspase 1 pathway. Arthritis and rheumatism 

65(12):3176 -3185. 

64. Zhang PL, Herrera GA, & Liu B (2020) Monoclonal glomerulopathy with features of 

cryoglobulinemic glomerulopathy in murine multiple myeloma model. Ultrastruct 

Pathol 44(4 -6):387 -394. 

65. Guirado R, Carceller H, Castillo -Gomez E, Castren E, & Nacher J (2018) Automated 

analysis of images for molecular quantification in immunohistochemistry. Heliyon 

4(6):e00669. 

66. Rebollo E, Boix -Fabres J, & Arbones ML (2019) Automated Macro Approach to 

Quantify Synapse Density in 2D Confocal Images from Fixed Immunolabeled N eural 

Tissue Sections. Methods in molecular biology (Clifton, N.J 2040:71 -97. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

47 

Supplemental Methods and Data 

for 

Neutrophil Extracellular Traps  Drive  Inflammation in  Local  Skin and  Distant  Kidney s

in  UVB -Irradiated Lupus -Prone Mice 

Xing Lyu 1,2,4 , Minghui Yi 1,2, , Minghui Li 1,2, 4, Ping L. Zhang 3, Wei Wei ,4 , Victoria P. 

Werth 1,2* , Ming -Lin Liu 1,2*  

> 1

Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VAMC, Philadelphia, PA, USA  

> 2

Department of Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 

Philadelphia, PA, USA  

> 3

Division of Anatomic Pathology, Beaumont Laboratories, Beaumont Health, Royal Oak, 

Michigan 48073, USA  

> 4

Department of  Rheumat ology  and Immunology,  Tianjin  Medical University General 

Hospital,  Tianjin, China 

Short title : NETosis drives UVB -induced lupus skin and kidney inflammation 

Correspondence to: Ming -Lin Liu, MBBS, PhD , and Victoria P. Werth, MD,  Department of 

Dermatology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, and Philadelphia 

Veterans Administration Medical center. Room B414, 3900 Woodland Avenue, Philadelphia, 

PA 19104, eMAIL:  lium1 @pennmedicine.upenn.edu ; werth@pennmedicine.upenn.edu 

Key words : SLE,  NETosis,  PKC α, CXCR4 , Skin -kidney  communication, 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

48 

Supplemental Data 

Suppl Fig 1. Renal neutrophil infiltration and NET -associated cytokines correlate with 

proteinuria in acute kidney inflammation in lupus -prone mice triggered by UVB . A. 

Correlation between glomerular neutrophil infiltration and glomerular cellularity. B-D.

Correlation between glomerular neutrophils, NET -associated IFNγ, IL -17A with proteinuria in 

combined experimental groups. All data were analy zed using Pearson correlation coefficients .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

49 

Suppl Fig 2. UVB induced expression of cytokines and C3 in vitro in primary neutrophils 

from lupus -prone mice . A-D. Representative histogram of IFNα, IFNγ, IL -17A, or C3 

expression in primary neutrophils from lupus -prone mice . Cells were stimulated without 

(control) or with 10 μM PAF, or 30 -60 mJ/cm 2 UVB irradiation, and incubated for 20h, then 

processed and immuno stained as de tail ed in methods and Fig 5 .

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 8, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.12.23.572573 doi: bioRxiv preprint

50 

Suppl Fig 3. Effects of pharmacological CXCR4 inhibition on acute skin and kidney 

inflammation in UVB -irradiated lupus -prone mice . A-K. Summary analyses or 

representative H&E images of epiderm al (A) and derm al (B) thickness , inflammatory cell 

infiltration ( C-D, nucleated cells), neutrophils (E) , CXCR4 -expressing neutrophils (F) , NETs 

(G) , and NET -associated IFNα (H) , IFNγ (I) , IL -17A (J) , or C3 (K) in skin of UVB -irradiated 

MRL/ lpr mice without (lpr UVB) or with IT1t administration (lpr IT1t+UVB). Scale bars, 100 

μm. Results represent 4 -5 biological replicates. Panels A,B,D-K display means ± SD 

determined by student’s t -test for two -group comparisons.