Title: Injury-induced Cxcl11 and neutrophil signaling drive zebrafish kidney regeneration by generating a nephrogenic niche of Fgf and Wnt expression

URL Source: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325v1.full.pdf

Number of Pages: 31

Markdown Content:
Injury-induced Cxcl11 and neutrophil signaling drive zebrafish kidney regeneration by generating a nephrogenic niche of Fgf and Wnt expression 

Olaleye Olajuyin* 1,3 , Heiko Schenk* 1,2 , Will G.B. Sampson 1,3 , Omodasola Adekeye 1,3 , Caramai N. Kamei 1,Rohan M. Upadhyay 1, Ryan Kennedy 1, Emma Morrison 1, Riley Callahan 1, Frederic Bonnet 1, Joel Graber 1,Ryan Seaman 1, Heath Fuqua 1, Robert Wheeler 3, Leif Oxburgh 4, and Iain A. Drummond 1# 

> 1

Davis Center for Regenerative Biology and Aging, Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory, Bar Harbor ME 04605 

> 2

Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Hannover Medical School, Hannover Germany, 30625 

> 3

Graduate School of Biomedical Science and Engineering, University of Maine, Orono ME 04469 

> 4

The Rogosin Institute, 504 E 74 th Street, New York, NY 10021 *The first two authors contributed equally to this work. 

> #

Author for Correspondence: Iain A. Drummond MDI Biological Laboratory 159 Old Bar Harbor Road Bar Harbor, ME 04605 617 435 0685 idrummond@mdibl.org 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Abstract 

Adult zebrafish regenerate their kidneys after injury by activating quiescent renal stem cells, however the injury signals that activate kidney stem cells are not known. We show here that an innate immune, cytokine response after tubule injury is required and sufficient to induce adult zebrafish kidney regeneration. An injury reporter zebrafish transgenic, Tg(kim1:mScarlet3), revealed that tubule injury occurred specifically in kidney proximal tubules and was associated with a rapid accumulation of neutrophils and macrophages. Injury also activated a 

Tg(NFkB:GFP) reporter transgene specifically in kidney tubules where RNA seq revealed NFkB target gene and cytokine expression. Inhibition of NFkB signaling with JSH-23 blocked Tg(NFkB:GFP) reporter activation and also inhibited induction of new nephrons. Systemic injection of the immune activators lipopolysaccharide or zymosan into uninjured fish rapidly induced cytokine expression followed by nephrogenic gene expression and the appearance of new, functional nephrons. Analysis of injury-induced cytokines revealed that several paralogs of cxcl11 were strongly expressed throughout the regeneration response and injection of recombinant Cxcl11 was sufficient to induce FGF-dependent kidney stem cell aggregation, but not Wnt-dependent epithelial differentiation. Kidney injury in zebrafish expressing a neutrophil dominant negative rac2D57N transgene activated Fgf signaling but failed to induce wnt9b or downstream Wnt target genes. Nephrogenic gene expression and epithelial tubule formation was rescued by treatment with the canonical Wnt agonist CHIR. Our findings demonstrate that an injury-induced, sterile immune response regulates kidney regeneration by establishing a nephrogenic niche of Fgf and Wnt signaling that supports tissue-resident kidney stem cell differentiation into functional nephrons. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Introduction 

Injury to mammalian epithelial organs can be repaired by epithelial cell dedifferentiation, proliferation, and redifferentiation to cover denuded basement membranes and regenerate epithelial structure and function 1,2 . In the zebrafish and other cold-blooded vertebrates, regeneration can also occur from newly forming epithelia 3,4 ,derived from adult progenitor cells 5-8 . In the zebrafish kidney, injury induces adult kidney stem cells to differentiate into new, functional nephrons 6 which engraft and integrate into the existing tubular network 9.Zebrafish adult kidney stem cells exist as a scattered mesenchymal cell population in the kidney interstitium, similar in gene expression profile to fetal mouse metanephric mesenchyme 7,10,11 . and adjacent to kidney distal nephrons. After cessation of kidney growth, these cells are quiescent and function as a reserve cell population that are activated in response to acute injury 6,10,12 .Like mammalian kidney tubules, zebrafish kidney cells can be injured by the nephrotoxic antibiotic gentamicin which is endocytosed by proximal tubule cells, accumulates in lysosomes, and triggers lysosome rupture and cell death 13-16 . Acute tubule injury signals a regenerative response where quiescent stem cells are activated, migrate, and coalesce into rosette-shaped epithelial aggregates on intact distal tubules 6,12 . Subsequently, kidney stem cell aggregates proliferate, elongate, and differentiate into new epithelial nephrons 12 . Several families of growth factors and morphogens have been shown to orchestrate regenerative nephrogenesis in adult zebrafish. Fibroblast growth factors fgf4 and fgf10a are induced by acute injury and act as chemokines to recruit kidney stem cells to distal tubules, prior to differentiation into nephron tubules 17 . Wnt ligands are induced in distal tubules ( wnt9a and wnt9b ) and in new stem cell aggregates themselves ( wnt4 ) 12 and are essential for epithelialization of stem cell aggregates and proliferative nephron outgrowth 9. Acute kidney injury also activates renal interstitial cells to secrete prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) which stabilizes β-catenin in kidney stem cell aggregates 18 . This sequence of events resembles the process of fetal kidney development in mice where Wnt9b expression on the branching ureteric epithelium induces a mesenchymal to epithelial transformation of the metanephric mesenchyme to generate kidney nephrons that subsequently engraft and integrate with the ureteric collecting system 19 . While the similarities between developmental mammalian nephrogenesis and regenerative nephrogenesis in the zebrafish are becoming clear, it remains unknown how acute kidney injury in zebrafish activates morphogen expression and stimulates kidney stem cells to form new kidney tissue in the context of an adult, functioning organ. Production of cytokines and other secreted signaling molecules is a well established response to wounding and cell injury in organisms ranging from planarian flatworms to human skin 20-23 . In zebrafish, organ and tissue damage signals a sterile inflammation, cytokine response that is associated with regenerative responses in the fins, eye, heart, and spinal cord, for example 24-29 . Evidence for oxidative stress and sterile inflammatory responses after acute zebrafish kidney injury has been reported 30 however whether cytokines or immune cell signaling play important roles in zebrafish kidney regeneration remains unknown. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

In this study, we investigated signals that initiate regenerative nephrogenesis after kidney tubular cell damage. We find that gentamicin-induced acute kidney injury elicits a robust inflammatory cytokine response which is both required and sufficient to stimulate growth factor expression and initiate adult stem cell-based kidney regeneration. In addition, we find that the cytokine Cxcl11 is rapidly induced in injured tubules and is sufficient to initiate expression of fgf4 and fgf10a and kidney stem cell aggregation on distal tubules, the first stage of new nephron formation. Independently, a neutrophil migration signal induces wnt9b expression to drive epithelial differentiation and nephrogenesis. These findings support a model in which inflammatory signaling drives sequential stages of nephron regeneration through a CXCL11–FGF axis and a neutrophil-dependent Wnt signal. 

Results 

Acute kidney injury stimulates inflammatory signaling 

lhx1a:GFP+ zebrafish adult kidney stem cells are activated by acute kidney injury in a step-wise fashion after injury to first aggregate on distal tubules in new nephron rosettes under the control of FGF signaling 17 , then proliferate under control of Wnt and prostaglandin signaling 12 , and subsequently differentiate and fuse with existing distal tubules 9 to add or replace nephron capacity in the zebrafish kidney (figure 1). In the mouse, Kim-1/Havcr-1 expression marks injured tubule cells 31 and is also expressed in macrophages 32 . To clarify the site of initial tubule damage in gentamicin injured zebrafish we generated a transgenic line incorporating the zebrafish 

kim1/havcr1 promoter region (-1,917 kb) driving mScarlet3 expression. kim1:mScarlet3 expression in kidney epithelia and phagocytes was differentiated by injection and uptake of 10kD fluorescent dextran, with myeloid cell/phagocytes staining double positive for dextran and mScarlet3 (figure 2). Uninjured Tg(kim1:mScarlet3) adult kidneys showed low levels mScarlet3 expression in kidney tubules and scattered expression in interstitial, dextran+ cells (figure 2A) representing phagocytes/myeloid cells. Gentamicin injury induced a dramatic increase in kidney tubule kim1:mScarlet3 expression at 2, 4, and 10 dpi (figure 2 B-D). Consistent with prior reports, acute tubule injury induced an increase in myeloid cells (mScarlet3/dextran double positive) adjacent to injured tubules (arrowheads in figure 2C) 33 . Gentamicin acute tubule injury was segment-specific and concentrated in the proximal tubule (figure 2D), similar to mammalian kidneys 13 . Both Tg(mpeg1.1:GFP) + macrophages and 

Tg(mpx:GFP) + neutrophils were recruited to kidney tubules by injury (figure 2 E,F). Tg(mpx:GFP) + neutrophils showed evidence of fragmentation and in some cases appeared to penetrate epithelial tubules (figure 2F; inset). An increase in kidney myeloid cell number was confirmed by cell counts and whole kidney qRTPCR with myeloid cell marker genes (supplemental figure 1). To identify signaling pathways associated with injury responses, we performed bulk RNA seq on isolated kidney tubules one and two days after gentamicin nephrotoxin injury (figure 3). We chose bulk RNA seq over the single cell seq approach to generate greater sequence read depth and identify injury-associated rare transcripts in tubules and tubule-associated cells. Fish kidneys are comprised of both nephron tubules and the so-called kidney marrow, the major hematopoietic tissue in the adult fish 11 . To distinguish RNA transcripts in injured kidney tubule-associated cells from bulk kidney marrow, the tubule fraction was isolated by collagenase digestion, 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

filtering, and sequential washes. Isolated this way, tubule fractions may contain tightly associated immune infiltrating cells (figure 2 E,F) but were significantly depleted of general marrow cells, showing a 50-400-fold depletion of known lymphocyte and hematopoietic marker genes gata1a, aqp1a, prf1, npsn, hbbe2, and lyz 

(figure 3B; supplemental table 1). Analysis of kidney tubule-enriched gene expression at 0-, 1-, and 2-days post injury (dpi) revealed complex expression patterns of multiple co-regulated gene cohorts (figure 3C). As expected from the injury to proximal tubule cells seen figure 2, gene cohorts associated with GO terms related to metabolism, transmembrane transport, and protein synthesis were downregulated on day 1 and day 2 after acute injury (clusters 1, 2 and 4, figure 3, supplemental table 2,3). One day post injury was characterized by a transient upregulation of transcription factors including the immediate-early transcription factor egr4 , ciliogenic factor rfx1 , and proinflammatory factor nfkb2 (supplemental table 2,3). Intracellular and nuclear transport as well as RNA turnover and processing showed sustained upregulation one day post injury (clusters 6,7, supplemental table 2,3). Interestingly, genes associated with ciliogenesis were markedly upregulated at day two (cluster 8, supplemental table 2,3), consistent with rfx1 induction at day one and prior reports on ciliogenic gene expression after injury in zebrafish larvae 34 and post kidney ischemia-reperfusion injury in the mouse 1. Notably, inflammatory signaling responses dominated GO terms for genes upregulated in tubule fractions two days post injury (2dpi, cluster 9, supplemental table 2,3). These genes included secreted cytokines ( ccl19, cxcl11.6, ccl34b.8 ), interferons ( ifnphi2, ifnphi3 ), interferon-induced genes ( ifit8,9,10 ), and inducible interferon regulatory factors ( irf10 ). Upregulation of the chemotactic factors cxcl8 (neutrophils) and cxcl11 (macrophages) was consistent with recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages to injured tubules (figure 2E,F). In addition, HOMER analysis of shared DNA regulatory elements in the genes encoding cluster 9 transcripts revealed enrichment for interferon regulatory factor ( irf ) motifs (supplemental table 4). Early cytokine expression was confirmed by qRTPCR analysis of isolated kidney tubules which revealed strong upregulation of inflammation associated genes two days after gentamicin injury (supplemental figure 2). The Tg(cdh17:mCherry) transgene specifically marks kidney tubule cells in zebrafish larval and adult kidneys 6.To confirm inflammation-associated gene expression in tubule epithelial cells, control and 7dpi 

Tg(cdh17:mCherry) FACS tubule cells were analyzed for genes upregulated by injury. Consistent with day 1 and day 2 post injury results, day 7 injured FACS tubule cells showed strong upregulation of inflammation and interferon regulated genes and cytokines associated with top gene ontology terms immune response (GO:0006955) and defense response (GO:0006952) (supplemental table 5). Also consistent with day 1 and 2 results, genes upregulated by injury included multiple cxcl11 paralogs ( cxcl11.1, cxcl11.5, cxcl11.6, cxcl11.8). 

The Cxcl11 receptors, cxcr3.1, cxcr3.2, cxcr3.3 35 , were also expressed in Tg(cdh17:mCherry)+ tubule cells (supplemental table 5). Overall, RNA seq revealed that damage-associated sterile inflammation is a persistent and conserved feature of acutely injured zebrafish kidney epithelial tubules and tubule-associated cells. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Inflammatory signaling is required and sufficient for kidney regeneration 

The zebrafish Tg(NF-kB:GFP) reporter line contains a synthetic enhancer element consisting of 6 repeats of an NFkB binding site and reports in vivo transcriptional activity of NFkB 36 . Upregulation of cytokines observed kidney tubule fractions after gentamicin injury correlated with induction of Tg(NF-kB:GFP) reporter expression in injured tubules (figure 4A,B). Tg(NF-kB:GFP) reporter activity was highest in proximal tubules adjacent to glomeruli (figure 4B) and was excluded from Tg(slc12a3:mCherry)+ distal tubules 37 (supplemental figure 3). These results are consistent with injury induction of Tg(kim1:mScarlet3) expression specifically in proximal tubules (figure 2) and imply that injury signaling must act at a distance to initiate new nephron formation on distal tubules. To determine whether NFkB activity was required for stimulating kidney progenitor cells, we blocked NF-kB nuclear translocation with the small molecule drug JSH-23 38 during the response to acute injury. Treatment of gentamicin injured Tg(NFkB:GFP) fish with JSH-23 prevented activation of the NFkB:GFP reporter at 4 dpi (figure 4C), confirming its pharmaceutical efficacy. Notably, JSH-23 also prevented the appearance of Tg(lhx1a:GFP) +

nephron progenitor cell aggregates at 7 dpi (figure 4D-G). The results indicate that NFkB transcriptional activity is required for lhx1a + nephron cell aggregate formation in zebrafish kidney regeneration. To test whether inflammation and cytokine signaling may be sufficient to induce kidney regeneration in the absence of tubule injury, we injected adult zebrafish intraperitoneally with the pathogen-associated molecular pattern inflammatory stimuli Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), zymosan, and polyI:C and assayed cytokine and nephrogenic gene expression. As expected, LPS, Zymosan, or polyI:C injection induced a rapid and transient expression of cytokines il6, il-1ß, tnf-a and the inflammatory response genes mxa and pim-1 in whole kidney that peaked at three to six hours post injection and returned to baseline by 48 hours post injection (supplemental figure 4). Compared with the gentamicin inflammatory response, LPS induction of cytokines was rapid and transient while gentamicin induced a slower, more prolonged response to at least 4 dpi (supplemental figure 4). Also, LPS strongly induced il6, il-1ß, and tnf-a expression that was not significantly observed in gentamicin injected fish (supplemental figure 4), implying different inflammatory pathways are activated in these two conditions. Notably, LPS injection significantly induced NFkB reporter activity and the nephrogenesis markers 

lhx1a , and fzd9b at seven days post injection, without significantly altering the expression of injury markers 

kim1/havcr1 or slc20a1a (figure 5A). Also, LPS did not induce expression of the kim1:mScarlet3 injury reporter (supplemental figure 5) indicating that induction of nephrogenesis markers was unlikely to be a response to an LPS-induced tubule injury . Expression of wnt9b mRNA, a distal tubule morphogen required for nephrogenic regeneration 9,12 , was also induced by LPS injection (figure 5A). In addition, zymosan, but not polyI:C, induced significant expression of lhx1a at 7 days post injection (supplemental figure 6), consistent with reports that zymosan and polyI:C engage different Toll-like receptors and signal distinct immune responses 39 .Wholemount in situ hybridization demonstrated that LPS-induced expression of lhx1a occurred in new nephron cell aggregates (figure 5 B,C). LPS also induced wnt9b expression specifically in adult kidney tubules (figure 5D) 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

at 7 dpi. LPS-induced Tg(lhx1a:GFP) + nephrons (figure 5E) were indistinguishable from nephrons induced by acute kidney injury (figure 4; 9). At higher resolution, uninjected control kidneys showed scattered EdU+ interstitial cells and single, non-proliferating lhx1a:eGFP+ kidney progenitor cells (figure 5F). By 7 days post LPS injection, proliferating, EdU+, lhx1a:GFP + aggregates were observed (figure 5G). Intraperitoneal injection of 10KD fluorescent dextran demonstrated that LPS-induced, EdU+ new nephrons took up dextran from epithelial tubule lumens (figure 5H) at 10 dpi, an indicator of functional glomerular fluid filtration. LPS induced nephrons at 14 dpi had fully formed glomeruli and remained highly proliferative (figure 5I). The results indicate that inflammatory signaling may be sufficient by itself to induce fully functional nephrons without causing significant tubule injury. 

Kidney regeneration is initiated by a Cxcl11 - Fgf signaling cascade 

Both gentamicin injury and LPS injection induced nephrogenesis, suggesting either that LPS may be inducing a tubule injury below the level of detection by kim1 or slc20a1a expression changes, or that cytokines generated by both treatments may be the diffusible signals that initiate kidney regeneration. To test this we performed initial screen of recombinant Tnfa, Il1-b, Il-6, or Clcf1 peptide injections, however none of these cytokines induced nephrogenic marker gene expression (supplemental figure 7). To better define cytokine candidates that may induce nephrogenesis, we examined the intersection of LPS 40 and our gentamicin-induced cytokine expression profiles. The zebrafish cytokines ccl34a, ccl35, tnfa, cxcl11, and cxcl18b were found to be induced in common between LPS and gentamicin injury and therefore candidates for inducers of nephrogenesis. Since Tnfa was negative in our prior experiments (supplemental figure 7), we pursued other candidate cytokines. Cxcl11 is 1) known to act as a chemokine for macrophages 35 , 2) is a transcriptional target of NFkB 41 , and multiple zebrafish 

cxcl11 paralogs were upregulated by injury in tubule and tubule-associated cells in response to tissue damage (this study, supplemental figure 2, supplemental table 6). Since cxcl11 and related cytokines can also be expressed by myeloid cells that amplify initial cytokine responses 42,43 , we examined cxcl11.6 expression by in situ hybridization. cxcl11.6 expression was not detected in control, uninjured kidneys (figure 6A) but was strongly expressed at 4 dpi in patches of interstitial cells (figure 6B) adjacent to kidney epithelial tubules (figure 6C), suggesting that cytokine expression is amplified by non-tubule, immune cells as injury and regeneration responses proceed. Similar results were observed for the paralog cxcl11.1 (suppplemental figure 8). Prior work has shown that human recombinant CXCL11 is active in zebrafish 44 , so we tested whether injection of recombinant CXCL11 could induce nephrogenesis in uninjured fish. Remarkably, intraperitoneal injection of recombinant CXCL11 alone was sufficient to induce lhx1a:GFP+ stem cell aggregation on uninjured adult zebrafish kidney distal tubules, the normal site of new nephron formation 12 . Single lhx1a:eGFP+ cells present in control kidneys (figure 6D) were induced to form multicellular aggregates after CXCL11 injection (figure 6E,F,I). These aggregates did not progress to the nephron tubule outgrowth stage however (figure 1), and instead persisted as multicellular domes with no evidence of epithelial cell differentiation or interconnection with distal tubules 9 (figure 6E). High resolution confocal imaging confirmed the multicellular nature of the aggregates and showed that they form on dolicus biflorus lectin-positive distal tubules (figure 6F), the normal site of new nephron formation 12 . The results suggest that Cxcl11 secretion in response to injury is a key initial step in new 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

nephron formation. Zebrafish kidney stem cell migration and aggregation is mediated by injury-induced expression of fgf4 and fgf10a 

in kidney tubules and Fgfr1 signaling 17 . Subsequent cell polarization, epithelial tubule outgrowth, and connection to distal tubules is Wnt-dependent (figure 1) 9,12 . Significantly, CXCL11 injection induced expression of fgf4 and 

fgf10a but not wnt9b in whole kidney tissue (figure 6G) . We tested whether CXCL11-induced stem cell aggregate formation was Fgf-dependent by treating CXCL11-injected fish with the Fgfr1 receptor antagonist PD166866 17 .Inhibition of Fgfr1 signaling blocked CXCL11-induced kidney stem cell aggregation (Figure 6H,I), demonstrating that CXCL11 effects are mediated sequentially by induction of fibroblast growth factors. The results provide evidence for a regenerative cell signaling cascade where injury-induced cxcl11 expression in tubules and/or tubule-associated cells induces fgf4/10a expression to signal kidney stem cell aggregation on distal tubules and initiate kidney regeneration. 

Neutrophil motility is required for Wnt signaling in kidney regeneration 

Following acute injury, neutrophils are the first cells to arrive at damaged tissue and proceed to recruit macrophages and other immune cells to generate an injury/wound healing response 45 . We noted a significant increase in myeloid cell number in association with tubule injury (figure 2, supplemental figure 1), similar to what has been reported previously in zebrafish injury models 33 . We tested whether impaired neutrophil migration in the neutrophil-specific dominant negative Rac2 line Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) 46 would impact cytokine production or subsequent regenerative responses in kidney injury. Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) expressing kidneys showed normal cxcl11 , fgf4, and fgf10a induction after injury (figure 7A-C). dusp6, an FGF target gene was also normally induced after injury (figure 7D), indicating that neutrophil motility was not required for initial 

cxcl11-fgf signaling. However, Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) kidneys failed to induce the Wnt ligand wnt9b and the Wnt target genes lhx1a, lef1 and wnt4 after kidney injury (figure 7E-H), suggesting that neutrophil motility and signaling was required for Wnt-dependent differentiation of new nephrons. Wholemount in situ hybridization (figure 7I-K; supplemental figure 9) and quantification of new nephrons (figure 7L) confirmed that stem cell aggregate formation marked by the Fgf target gene dusp6 17 occurred normally in injured 

Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) kidneys while whole mount in situ expression of lhx1a expression was markedly reduced (figure 7M-O; 7L). Both gentamicin-injured Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) and CXCL11-injected fish generated nephron stem cell aggregates that did not progress to the Wnt-dependent epithelial differentiation phase of kidney regeneration. We therefore tested whether supplementing acutely injured Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) or CXCL11-injected kidneys with the canonical Wnt agonist CHIR 47 would restore nephrogenic Wnt target gene expression and promote tubulogenesis. wnt9b induction after acute injury normally occurs in distal tubules and peaks at five days post injury 12 . Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) gentamicin-injured or CXCL11-injected fish were treated with CHIR for 48 hours between 4 and 6 dpi and assayed for nephrogenesis at 7 dpi. Expression of Wnt target genes 

lhx1a, lef1, and wnt4 was completely restored by CHIR treatment in Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) gentamicin-

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

injured kidneys as assayed by qRTPCR (figure 7F-H). CHIR treatment also induced epithelial cell differentiation and tubule outgrowth from lhx1a:eGFP+ new nephron aggregates in CXCL11-injected fish, imaged by confocal microscopy (figure 7Q,R). Quantification of nephron tubule formation frequency revealed that while aggregates induced by CXCL11 injection alone never formed nephron tubules, 16.7% (7/42) of CXCL11 +CHIR treated 

lhx1a:eGFP+ aggregates showed evidence of epithelial differentiation and tubule outgrowth (figure 7R). Elongating nephrons in CXCL11 +CHIR treated fish also showed evidence of distal tubule invasion, a Wnt-dependent process 9, as a prelude to tubule interconnection and functional engraftment (figure 7R). 

Discussion 

An important aim in regenerative biology is to determine how organ repair can be achieved without fibrosis and prevent chronic deterioration of organ function. Regenerative responses to injury in epithelial organs are markedly different between fish, that exhibit scarless healing, and mammals that develop fibrotic, degenerative responses to repeated organ injury 48-50 , making fish and other cold-blooded vertebrates important systems for understanding organ regeneration 51,52 . While it is increasingly clear that inflammatory responses and cytokine secretion are universal responses to wounding and injury 53 , whether inflammation induces beneficial or damaging responses in injured tissue and how cytokine signaling may coordinate responses of tissue progenitor cells to stimulate regeneration is not well defined. The generation of wound and injury signals as an initial stimulus for regeneration is well conserved in species ranging from humans to planaria 20,54-56 . In zebrafish, inflammatory signaling has been identified as a positive regulator of regeneration in multiple tissues, including the fin, retina, brain, spinal cord, and heart 57-62 . In the zebrafish kidney, injury stimulates the production of new nephrons from tissue-resident stem cells to compensate for lost organ function 3,6-8,12,17 . We show here that inflammatory signaling is essential for this response. We also find that stimulating inflammation in the absence of tissue injury is sufficient to generate fully functional nephrons. Our results show that full regeneration requires multiple, independently generated inflammatory signals acting in combination to stimulate nephrogenesis: injury induction of cxcl11 leads to expression of fibroblast growth factors fgf4 and fgf10a which is sufficient to recruit kidney stem cells to the distal tubules and form pretubular cell aggregates 17 . An independent, neutrophil-associated inflammatory signal is essential for subsequent wnt9b 

expression, epithelial tubule differentiation 12 , and engraftment to the distal tubules 9. This inflammation-induced sequence of Fgf and Wnt growth factor signaling parallels developmental signaling in mammalian nephrogenesis  

> 63,64

and the protocols used for human kidney organoid production 65,66 , indicating that both developmental and inflammatory regulatory circuits can stimulate nephron formation by generating a nephrogenic niche enabled by induction of critical growth factors. Inflammatory signaling in the context of injury is typically biphasic: damage signals drive macrophage and neutrophil recruitment to sites of injury, supporting apoptotic cell clearance, and stimulating regenerative responses that are all subsequently downregulated as part of productive repair 67 . Persistent, unresolved inflammation drives fibrotic, degenerative tissue responses that result in failed repair and pro-inflammatory 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

senescent cell states 1,68 . The difference between these outcomes may be more dependent on the magnitude and duration of the responses than the identity of signaling molecules themselves 67,69 . In mammals, Wnt ligands released from macrophages can promote pro-regenerative proliferation of intestinal, hepatic, and renal epithelial cells 67 , while prolonged exposure of injured tissue to Wnt signals can result in myofibroblast differentiation and fibrosis 69-71 . In the zebrafish, injury to the heart or the kidney does not result in fibrotic scarring despite the expression of similar, injury-induced ligands 12,72,73 . Also, we have previously shown that the Wnt ligand wnt9b is only transiently upregulated by acute kidney injury, peaking at 5 dpi and resolving at 7 dpi 12 , suggesting that signaling responses to injury are temporally well controlled in the fish 74 .Cellular context is also a determinant of regenerative vs. degenerative outcomes. The presence of different populations of immune cells or tissue-resident organ progenitors is likely to have a major effect on regenerative outcomes. In neonatal mouse hearts that show scar-free healing, an embryo-derived population of resident macrophages promotes cardiomyocyte proliferation and angiogenesis after injury while the adult heart is repopulated post-injury by pro-inflammatory macrophages 75 . In axolotl limb regeneration, macrophages show different responses to DAMPs compared to the mouse 76 , suggesting that the interpretation of inflammatory signals is different in regenerative vs. non-regenerative animals. It is not known whether immune cell responses in the zebrafish kidney differ in important ways from the mouse however, the presence of adult kidney stem cells in the fish 6,7,11 clearly distinguishes the regenerative potential of the fish kidney from the mouse. It is clear that the same ligand (Wnt9b) can induce divergent responses in the fish kidney (epithelialization of stem cells) compared to the mouse (myofibroblast differentiation), due to different developmental potentials of resident interstitial cells. Sorting out how fish maintain multipotent progenitor cells in the adult kidney 7 and how cell lineage potential is determined in fish vs. mouse will be important questions for future studies. Inflammatory signaling cytokines we describe could act directly on stem/progenitor cells or, alternatively, could act indirectly, creating a secondary signaling environment that recapitulates nephrogenic developmental cues. In the mouse lung, IL-6/STAT3 signaling stimulates regeneration of airway ciliated cells by acting directly on basal stem cells, promoting their differentiation 77 . Also, in mammalian intestinal regeneration, Il-22 from lymphoid cells can act directly Lrg5+ progenitors to support organoid formation in vitro and promote intestinal tissue regeneration in vivo 78,79 . On the other hand, Wnt expression from gut macrophages has been shown to generate a pro-regenerative niche that mitigates intestinal epithelial injury 80 . Evidence in our study points to an indirect mechanism of action of inflammatory cytokines on kidney regenerative responses. The activity of Cxcl11 signaling kidney stem cell aggregation requires Fgfr1 signaling and correlates with induction of the Fgf ligands 

fgf4 and fgf10a which are normally expressed in distal tubule epithelial cells after injury 17 . This primary site of new nephron formation 12 is distinct from the stem cells themselves. Similarly, the neutrophil motility requirement for epithelial differentiation correlates with expression of wnt9b, which normally occurs in distal tubules, not the kidney stem cells. The simplest interpretation of our results is that injury-induced inflammatory signaling acts on pre-existing distal tubules to generate secondary signals ( wnt9b, fgf4/10a ) and create a nephrogenic signaling niche. Consistent with this idea, following injury, kidney stem cells do not proliferate until after they aggregate 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

and begin forming an epithelial tubule at 5-7 dpi (unpublished results and 7), implying that cytokines do not act directly as mitogens on stem cells. Our transcriptomic data (supplemental table 5) and data from other studies  

> 37

show that the Cxcl11 receptors Cxcr3.1, Cxcr3.2, and Cxcr3.3 are expressed in zebrafish distal tubule cells. However, myeloid cells/macrophages are also known to express Cxcr3, respond to Cxcl11 35 , and could act as signaling intermediates promoting kidney stem cell / distal tubule interactions. Further studies of the cell types involved in responses to the inflammatory signals we have identified will better define the sources, direct targets, and signal transduction pathways of cytokines responsible for establishing a nephrogenic niche after acute kidney injury. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Materials and Methods Zebrafish maintenance 

Adult wild-type TuAB zebrafish ( Danio rerio ), both male and female, aged approximately 6–18 months, were used for this study. The animals were maintained according to established protocols 81 . All animal experiments were performed in compliance with MDIBL IACUC animal welfare regulations. Transgenic fish used were: 

Tg(lhx1a:eGFP) 6, Tg(NF-kB:GFP) 36 , Tg(Kim1:mScarlet3) (see below) , Tg(mpeg1:eGFP) 82 , Tg(mpx:GFP ) 83 ,

and Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) 46 . Experimentally induced acute kidney injury procedures were carried out in accordance with MDIBL-approved IACUC protocols. 

Generation of kim1:mScarlet3 transgenic 

The kim1:mScarlet3 transgenic line was generated by InVivo Biosystems (Eugene, OR). One cell stage wildtype (ABC) zebrafish embryos were injected with 2 ul of a mixture of the Tol2 Tg(kim1(-1,917):mScarlet3 donor plasmid (25 ng/μL), Tol2 transposase mRNA (25 ng/μL), and phenol red injection dye (0.05%). F0 injected embryos with mosaic expression of the fluorescent marker consistent with published havcr1/kim1 in situ hybridization (see https://zfin.org/ZDB-GENE-040718-131/expression) were raised to adulthood and outcrossed to identify transgenic founders. Germline transmission was confirmed by visualization of mScarlet3 expression in putative macrophages in the F2 generation. 

Drug treatments 

Fgfr1 signaling was inhibited by treating adult zebrafish with PD166866 (10 μM; prepared from a 25.2mM stock, final DMSO concentration 0.04%) added to system water, as described by 17 . Fish were pre-treated for 24 hours prior to recombinant CXC11 injection and maintained in the treatment solution for an additional 3 days. Control animals were kept in system water containing an equivalent concentration of DMSO. Both treatment and control solutions were changed daily by replacing half of the volume with fresh drug-treated water. The FGF inhibition protocol was continued until the animals were sacrificed 3 days post-CXCL11 injection. NF-kB signaling was inhibited by treating adult zebrafish with JSH-23 in 500 ml fish system water containing 3.5 μM JSH-23 (final DMSO concentration 0.1% DMSO, Sigma Aldrich J4455) as described in PMID 31866203. Fish treatments started 24 hours post-injection with gentamicin and were carried out for 7 days. Control animals were kept in system water containing an equivalent concentration of DMSO. Both treatment and control solutions were changed daily by replacing half of the volume with fresh drug-treated water. For CHIR treatment, gentamicin injected Rac2DN fish ( Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) were incubated in 10μg/ml CHIR (CHIR 99021, Tocris cat. #4423) in 0.1% DMSO for 48 hours between 4 and 6 days after injury, after which the medium was replaced with fresh drug-free water and the fish analyzed at 7dpi. 

Intraperitoneal injection 

Fish were anesthetized in 0.024% tricaine. Acute kidney injury was induced by intraperitoneal injection of gentamicin (Sigma, Saint Louis, MO) at 80mg/kg (2mg/ml stock in PBS at 10μl per 0.25g body mass) as previously described 84 . Sham-injured controls received an equivalent volume of PBS in place of gentamicin. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Kidney injury was confirmed at 1-day post-injection by visual detection of cast excretion, as previously reported 

> 84

. For immune stimulation, adult fish were intraperitoneally injected with Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from E. coli, 

(Sigma, Saint Louis, MO. 10mg/ml stock in PBS at 10μl per 0.5g of body mass), Zymosan from S. cerevisiae, 

(Sigma, Saint Louis, MO. 10mg/ml stock in PBS at 20μl per 0.5g of body mass). Polyinosinic–polycytidylic (poly I:C) (acid Sigma, Saint Louis, MO. 10mg/ml stock in PBS at 25μl per 0.5g of body mass). Fish injected with an equivalent volume of PBS served as controls. For cytokine injections, IL-6 and IFN-γ (Kingfisher Biotech, St. Paul, MN, USA) were prepared as 50 μg/mL stock solutions in PBS and administered intraperitoneally at 10 μL per 0.25 g body weight. TNF-α and CLCF1 (Kingfisher Biotech) were prepared as 250 μg/mL stock solutions in PBS and administered at 10 μL per injection. Human recombinant CXCL11 (Peprotech, NJ, USA) was injected at 10 μL of a 20 μg/mL stock solution. 

EdU labeling and detection 

To identify proliferating cells, adult zebrafish were anesthetized in 0.024% tricaine and administered 20 μL of 0.5 mg/mL EdU (5-ethynyl-2′-deoxyuridine; 2.5 mg/mL in PBS) dissolved in HBSS (Sigma Aldrich) via intraperitoneal injection 2 hours before kidneys were harvested. Following the treatment, kidneys were dissected, and EdU incorporation was detected in whole-mount kidney preparations using the Click-iT® Plus EdU Alexa Fluor® 647 Imaging Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. For dextran filtration experiments, EdU was injected at 6dpi, 10dpi, and 12dpi, and 20 μl 10KD rhodamine dextran (1mg/mL in PBS) (Thermo Fisher) was injected at 8 and 12dpi, and kidneys were harvested at 10dpi and 14dpi. 

In situ hybridization 

Whole-mount single in situ hybridization (ISH) was performed as previously described 85 with modifications adapted from Kamei et al. 84 . Digoxigenin (DIG)-labeled antisense RNA probes were generated from zebrafish 

lhx1a , fzd9b , and wnt9b cDNA sequences 12 . Adult zebrafish were dissected to remove the head and internal organs, leaving the kidneys attached to the dorsal body wall, and fixed overnight with gentle rocking in 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA; Electron Microscopy Sciences). Following fixation, tissues were washed five times in PBST (1× PBS containing 0.5% Tween-20). Kidneys were dissected using fine forceps and permeabilized with 10 μg/mL proteinase K (Roche) in PBST for 1 h at room temperature with gentle agitation, then post-fixed in 4% PFA overnight at 4°C and washed five times with PBST. Samples were pre-incubated in hybridization buffer (50% formamide, 5× SSC, 50 μg/mL heparin, 500 μg/mL tRNA, 0.1% Tween-20, pH 6.0) at 68°C, followed by hybridization with the DIG-labeled antisense probes at the same temperature. Bound probes were detected using an anti-DIG alkaline phosphatase–conjugated antibody (sheep Fab fragments, 1:5000; Roche) and visualized with the NBT/BCIP chromogenic substrate (Boehringer Mannheim). After staining, kidneys were refixed in 4% PFA, cleared in dimethylformamide, depigmented with hydrogen peroxide, and equilibrated in a 1:1 mixture of PBS and glycerol. Whole-mount samples were imaged using a Leica MZ12 stereomicroscope equipped with a Spot digital camera. For histological analysis, stained kidney tissues were washed in PBT (PBS with 0.5% Tween-20), dehydrated through an ethanol series (50%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 100%; 10 min each), and embedded in JB-4 plastic resin (Electron Microscopy Sciences). Sections (7 μm) were obtained using a Leica 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

RM2165 rotary microtome, mounted with Permount (Fisher Scientific), and imaged using a Nikon E800 microscope equipped with a Spot Insight CCD digital camera. 

Immunohistochemistry 

Fish were euthanized, and all organs except the kidneys were removed, leaving the kidneys attached to the body for fixation. Samples were fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde (PFA) for 3 hours at room temperature on a rocker, followed by five washes in PBST (PBS containing 0.1% Tween-20). Kidneys were then dissected, treated with proteinase K for 1 hour, post-fixed in 4% PFA for 1 hour, and washed five times for 20 minutes each in PBST. Whole-mount kidney tissues were incubated overnight at 4 °C in blocking buffer containing the following primary antibodies: chicken anti-GFP (1:5000; Abcam, ab13970) and rabbit anti-DsRed (1:500; Takara Bio, catalog #632496). After primary antibody incubation, tissues were washed in incubation buffer and incubated overnight with secondary antibodies, goat anti-chicken Alexa Fluor 488 (1:3000) and goat anti-rabbit Alexa Fluor 567 (1:300). Tissues were again washed extensively in incubation buffer, followed by nuclear staining with Hoechst 33342 (1:2000) overnight. Finally, samples were washed, mounted in glycerol, and prepared for confocal imaging. 

Kidney tubule isolation 

Adult female AB or TuAB trunk kidneys (two per sample) were initially vortexed 30 seconds, then incubated on a rocking stage at room temperature in 5mg/mL Collagenase Type 2 (Worthington) in 0.9X HBSS (calcium, magnesium, no phenol red) (Gibco) for 15 minutes. The tissues were then vortexed for 2 minutes and rocked at room temperature for 15 minutes twice and left standing for 3 minutes to allow tubules to separate from hematopoietic cells by gravity. The supernatant containing the hematopoietic fraction of the kidney was collected and passed through a 40 μm filter (pluriSelect) to exclude any tubules from the preparation before centrifugation at 300xG for 5 minutes. Tubules were washed with 1mL 0.9x HBSS, vortexed, and left standing again for 3 minutes. After discarding supernatant liquid from all samples, tissues were used in an RNAeasy Plus Micro RNA extraction kit (QIAGEN), disrupting the tissue in lysis buffer with a pestle and passing the lysate through a Qiashredder column (QIAGEN) for 2 minutes at 16,000xG. Purified RNA was used in a QuantiTect Reverse Transcription Kit (QIAGEN), yielding cDNA for qPCR analyses in a Lightcycler II (Roche). Depletion of hematopoietic tissue from tubule preparations was confirmed by measuring reduced gata1a expression (qRTPCR) in tubules as compared to the whole trunk kidney. 

RNA sequencing 

Raw FASTQ files were processed using the nf-core/rnaseq pipeline (v3.14.0). Ribosomal RNA reads were removed using SortMeRNA (version 4.3.4) prior to alignment. Reads were aligned to the Danio rerio reference genome version GRCz11, with annotations from Ensembl release 110 86 , using the STAR aligner 87 (version 2.79a), and gene-level read counts were quantified using Salmon 88 (version 1.10.1) in alignment-based mode. STAR alignment files were manually analyzed for evidence of differential abundance of repetitive reads across samples and conditions at two levels, reads with more than 20 genomic alignments (reported only as a count 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

and fraction of the input reads for each sample), or reads that hit multiply less than 20 times (returned with both alignments and an overall count and fraction of input reads). No significant variation was observed between conditions of either metric. A merged gene counts matrix generated from all sample-specific Salmon runs was used for downstream analysis. For the early recovery samples, further analysis was performed using R for Mac (version 4.3.3) for mac and using the package DESeq2 89 (version 1.42.1) for correlation of read counts per gene across samples, and test for differentially expressed genes. Poorly expressed genes, those that failed to have at least 10 mapped reads in at least three samples, were removed from the analysis. Read counts of genes for triplicate samples were highly correlated by principal components analysis. DESeq2 was used in “LRT” mode, comparing the model “~condition” against the base null model “~1”, reporting genes with significance padj <= 0.05. DESeq2’s rlog 

function was used to generate an expression matrix, and then subset to contain only genes that passed the LRT significance test described above. The resulting matrix was Z-normalized gene-by-gene, such that the normalized expression of the ith gene in condition j was given by Zij = ( rij - avg i)/stdev i, where rij is the rlog-normalized expression for gene i, condition j and avg i and stdev i, are the average and standard deviation, respectively, for gene i across all samples. The resulting Z-matrix was hierarchically clustered with JMP 18.0.1 for Mac, using Ward clustering without column normalization. The final cluster number was selected manually after visual inspection, and gene lists for each cluster used for downstream analysis. For the 7-day recovery samples, DESeq2 was used with a standard Wald-test to compare expression levels of damaged and control samples, with a single factor design matrix. 

FACS Cell sorting 

Adult Tg(cdh17:mCherry) zebrafish kidneys were dissected and processed into single cell suspensions using 0.5% w/v Collagenase Type 2 (Worthington) in 0.9X HBSS (+Ca/+Mg), (Gibco), for 30 minutes for digestion. Collagenase activity was inhibited by the transfer to 0.9X HBSS (-Ca/-Mg) / 2% FBS (Gibco) and were passed through a 40 μm filter (Miltenyi). Cell suspensions were sorted on a BD FACSymphony S6 6-way cell sorter. RNA was isolated using the RNAeasy Plus Micro RNA extraction kit (QIAGEN). 

qRTPCR 

RNA was extracted from adult zebrafish kidneys at specified time points after gentamicin-induced injury, or injections of various immunogens – Lipopolysaccharides (LPS), Zymosan, and Poly IC to stimulate inflammation. Extraction was performed using the Qiashredder and RNeasy Plus Universal Kit (Qiagen, Germantown, MD), following the manufacturer’s protocol. RNA was then synthesized into cDNA using QuantiTect Rev. Transcription Kit (Qiagen, Germantown, MD), followed by quantitative PCR (Roche Light Cycler 480) using TB Green-based qPCR kits (Takara) and primers as listed in supplemental Table 6. Each qRTPCR experiment was performed using biological triplicates. Gene expression was normalized to gapdh mRNA expression, and data were analyzed using GraphPad Prism. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Image acquisition 

The adult zebrafish kidneys were mounted on glass slides using 1:1 mixture of 50% glycerol and PBS as the mounting medium and a No. 1.5 coverslip (Fisherbrand). Images were acquired using a point scanning confocal microscope (LSM 980, Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Germany) on a Zeiss Axio Examiner Z1 upright microscope stand (ref: 409000-9752-000, Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Germany) equipped with a Plan/Apochromat 10x/0.45 M27(ref:420640-9900-000, Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Germany) and 63x/1.40 Oil objectives (ref: 420782-9900-000, Carl Zeiss Microscopy, Germany). Fluorescence was excited using 488 nm (GFP), 568 nm (mScarlet3), 647 nm (EdU/iFluor 647), and 405nm (Hoechst) lasers, with emission detected using spectral detection windows set to appropriate ranges for each fluorophore. Laser power and detector voltage were adjusted individually for each experiment based on histogram feedback to maintain signal intensities within the linear range, targeting 25–50% of the dynamic range to avoid oversaturation. Images were acquired in confocal mode, 8-bit depth, bidirectional scanning. Z-stacks were collected with both 10× and 63× objectives using optimal Nyquist sampling (1×) in the X, Y, and Z dimensions. Imaging was performed using a motorized scanning stage (130 × 85 PIEZO) with a Z-piezo stage insert (WSB500). The system was controlled using ZEN Blue software (ZEN Pro 3.1, Carl Zeiss Microscopy). Airyscan processing was performed in 3D using automatic settings in super-resolution mode. 

Statistical analysis 

Image quantification was performed using Imaris software. Volumetric analysis was applied to z-stack datasets in Imaris to quantify three-dimensional structures of adult zebrafish nephron aggregates. The "Add New Surfaces" feature of Imaris was applied to the green, lhx1a:eGFP channel in maximum intensity projections of 

lhx1a:eGFP transgenic kidneys treated with CXCL11. Multicellular, lhx1a:GFP+ structures with six or more contiguous nuclei and with a volume greater than 1,450 cubic microns were counted as nephron stem cell aggregates. GraphPad Prism 10.1.0 was used to determine p-values with one-way ANOVA for more than two groups and t-Test for two groups. Significance level is displayed as: not significant (ns) = p > 0.05, * = p ≤ 0.05, ** = p ≤ 0.01, *** = p ≤ 0.001. 

Acknowledgements and Funding 

This research was supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIDDK 5UC2DK126021; I.A.D., L.O.; R15AI169393 to R.W.), the Harvard Stem Cell institute (DP-0097-11-00; I.A.D.), an NSF REU program grant (NSF DBI 2243416), and NIGMS IDeA Awards under P20GM103423, P20GM104318, and P30GM154610. Heiko Schenk was supported by the German Research Foundation (DFG, SCHE 2173/1-1) and by the PRACTIS - Clinician Scientist Program of Hannover Medical School (MHH), funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG, ME 3696/3-1). Image collection for this manuscript was performed with the assistance of the MDI Biological Laboratory Light Microscopy Facility (RRID:SCR_019166). Animal husbandry was supported by the MDIBL COBRE comparative animal models core (P30GM154610). We thank the cited authors for creating and sharing the transgenic zebrafish used in this study. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Competing interests 

The authors have no competing interests to declare. 

Data and resource availability 

GEO/ SRA submission is complete and being processed by NCBI. Acession #'s for transcriptomic data on kidney injury will be supplied prior to publication. Tg(kim1:mScarlet3) transgenic zebrafish will be available on request under the standard NIH universal materials transfer agreement for academic research. 

Author Contributions 

Conceptualization, O.O., H.S. and I.A.D.; Methodology, C.N.K., H.S., F.B., W.G.B.S., O.A., R.W., L.O. and I.A.D.; Investigation, O.O., C.N.K., H.S., W.G.B.S., O.A., R.U., R.K., E.M., R.C., J.C., R.S., H.F.; Resources, R.W., L.O.; Writing-Original Draft, I.A.D.; Writing – Reviewing and editing, all authors; Supervision, I.A.D.; Funding Acquisition, I.A.D, R.W., L.O., H.S. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Figure legends Figure 1 Stages of zebrafish kidney regeneration. The mesonephric kidney is a system of segmented, branched tubules required for blood filtration (glomeruli, red circles), tubular transport (Proximal tubule; PT, Distal tubule; DT), and osmoregulation. Quiescent kidney stem cells (green) reside on distal tubules and in kidney interstitium (left). Injury to the proximal tubule (PT; see figure 2) induces stem cell aggregation on distal tubules under control of fibroblast growth factors, and epithelial nephron outgrowth under control of Wnt signaling 12,17 .

Figure 2. kim1:mScarlet3 expression marks nephrotoxin-injured tubule segments. (A) Uninjured adult mesonephros with scattered interstitial kim1:mScarlet3+, 10K dextran+ phagocytic myeloid cells. (B) At 2 days post injury (dpi), tubule segments express kim1:mScarlet3 as a marker of tubule damage. (C) At 4 dpi, 

kim1:mScarlet3+ tubules are associated with dextran+ phagocytes (arrowheads). (D) A 10 dpi nephron showing the proximal tubule ( pt ) adjacent to a glomerulus ( gl ) is most strongly kim1:mScarlet3 positive while more distal cells (asterisk) do not express the injury marker. (E) mpeg:GFP+ macrophages associate with injured 

cdh17:mCherry+ tubules at 2 dpi. (F) mpx:GFP+ neutrophils are ubiquitous in the interstitium and show evidence of fragmentation (arrowhead) in 1 dpi kidneys. Epithelial tubule cells show uptake of GFP. (F, inset) mpx:GFP+ 

neutrophils are observed invading epithelial tubule lumens (asterisks) at 1 dpi. Scale bars: A-D = 50 μm; E = 10 μm; F = 20 μm. 

Figure 3. Transcriptomic analysis of acute tubule injury. (A) Injury and sample protocol for tubule purification and sequencing. (B) Volcano plot of tubule (blue) vs. hematopoietic (red) cell fraction transcriptomes. (C) Heat map of kidney tubule transcriptional response to acute injury. Co-regulated transcript clusters and associated GO terms. Inset scale bar = 50 μm. 

Figure 4. NF-kB signaling is required for kidney regeneration. ( A) Uninjured NF-kB:GFP reporter transgenic kidney tissue. gl: glomerulus, pt: proximal tubule. (B) Upregulation of NF-kB:GFP reporter activity in proximal tubule segments (pt). (C) Incubation with NF-kB nuclear translocation inhibitor JSH-23 prevents activation of NF-kB:GFP reporter 3 days post injury. (D) Uninjured lhx1a:eGFP (kidney stem cells) transgenic kidney tissue. (E) 

lhx1a:eGFP+ new nephron cell aggregates 7 days post gentamicin injury. (F) lhx1a:eGFP transgenic kidney tissue 7 days post gentamicin injury treated with JSH-23. (G) Quantification of effect of JSH-23 on kidney regeneration. Scale bars = 200 μm. 

Figure 5. Induction of nephrogenesis by LPS without injury. (A) Quantification (qRTPCR) of NFkB reporter and nephron marker gene expression, seven days post LPS injection. (B) Control PBS injection kidney shows no nephrogenesis. (C) Seven days post LPS injection, new lhx1a+ nephron stem cell aggregates have formed (arrowheads; in situ hybridization). (D) Seven days post LPS injection, kidney distal tubules and collecting ducts express wnt9b. (E) Transgenic lhx1a:eGFP kidneys show lhx1a promoter reporter activity in new nephrons seven days post LPS injection. (F-I) Time series of nephrogenesis after LPS injection. (F) Uninjected fish show single, 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

non-proliferating lhx1a:eGFP+ kidney stem cells. (G) Seven days post LPS injection, lhx1a:eGFP+ proliferating (EdU: blue) new nephron cell aggregates have formed. (H) By 10 days post LPS, labelled dextran (red) filtration can be seen in new nephrons marked by EdU incorporation (blue). (I) By 14 days post LPS, fully formed, Edu marked new nephrons show persistent distal lhx1a:eGFP + expression and morphologically complete glomeruli (gl ) at the proximal nephron end. Scale bars: B-E = 200 μm; F,G = 20 μm; H,I = 10 μm. 

Figure 6. Cxcl11 and FGF expression drive aggregation of kidney stem cells. Whole mount in situ hybridization of control (A) and 4 days post injury (4 dpi) kidneys (B) shows expression of cxcl11.1 in patches of interstitial cells (C) adjacent to kidney tubules (T in C). (D) Control kidney lhx1a:eGFP+ single kidney stem cells prior to CXCL11 cytokine injection. (E) three days post CXCL11 injection, multicellular lhx1a:eGFP+ aggregates form. (F) High magnification view of a multicellular lhx1a:eGFP+ cell aggregate formed on a dolichus biflorus lectin-lumen (DBA) marked distal tubule (magenta; DT ). (G) Gene expression changes after CXCL11 injection quantified by qRTPCR. (H) Inhibition of Fgfr1 signaling by PD166866 blocks CXCL11-induced multicellular 

lhx1a:eGFP+ cell aggregate formation. (I) Quantification of lhx1a:eGFP+ cell aggregates formed three days after CXCL11 injection and the effect of Fgfr1 inhibition. Scale bars in A,B = 200 μm; C = 20 μm; D,E,H = 40 μm; F = 5μm. 

Figure 7. A neutrophil motility-dependent signal is required for Wnt signaling and nephrogenesis. 

Quantification of 2 dpi cxcl11.6 (A), 3 dpi fgf4 (B), 3 dpi fgf10a (C), and 7 dpi dusp6 (D) signaling by RTPCR shows no significant difference from controls in the Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) transgenic after kidney injury. Quantification of 7 dpi wnt9b (E), 7dpi lef1 (F), 7dpi lhx1a (G), and 7 dpi wnt4 (H) expression after injury shows a lack of wnt9b induction by injury and a lack of response of Wnt target genes in the 

Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) transgenic that can be restored by treatment with 10μM CHIR from 4-6 dpi. (I-L) Whole mount in situ hybridization for dusp6 . Compared to control uninjured kidney (I), gentamicin acute injury induces multiple new nephron cell aggregates that are unaffected in the Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) 

transgenic (K, L). (M-P) Whole mount in situ hybridization for lhx1a . Compared to control kidney (M), gentamicin acute injury (N) induces many lhx1a+ new nephron aggregates. In cell aggregates of 

Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) transgenic kidneys (O), lhx1a is not highly expressed. Quantification of aggregates in N and O shows a significant reduction in lhx1a+ new nephron aggregates in the 

Tg(mpx:mCherry,rac2_D57N) transgenic. (Q) Injection of CXCL11 in wildtype zebrafish generated new nephron aggregates marked by lhx1a:eGFP that did not elongate into nephron tubules. (R) Treatment of CXCL11 injected zebrafish with 10 μg/ml CHIR between 4 and 6 days induced tubule outgrowth (asterisk) and distal tubule invasion (arrowhead) in a subset of treated animals. Scale bars: I-O = 200 μm; Q,R = 20 μm. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

References 

1. Kirita, Y., Wu, H., Uchimura, K., Wilson, P.C., and Humphreys, B.D. (2020). Cell profiling of mouse acute kidney injury reveals conserved cellular responses to injury. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 117 , 15874-15883. 10.1073/pnas.2005477117. 2. Yang, L., Humphreys, B.D., and Bonventre, J.V. (2011). Pathophysiology of acute kidney injury to chronic kidney disease: maladaptive repair. Contrib Nephrol 174 , 149-155. 10.1159/000329385. 3. Reimschuessel, R. (2001). A fish model of renal regeneration and development. ILAR J 42 , 285-291. 10.1093/ilar.42.4.285. 4. Salice, C.J., Rokous, J.S., Kane, A.S., and Reimschuessel, R. (2001). New nephron development in goldfish (Carassius auratus) kidneys following repeated gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicosis. Comp Med 

51 , 56-59. 5. Camarata, T., Howard, A., Elsey, R.M., Raza, S., O'Connor, A., Beatty, B., Conrad, J., Solounias, N., Chow, P., Mukta, S., and Vasilyev, A. (2016). Postembryonic Nephrogenesis and Persistence of Six2-Expressing Nephron Progenitor Cells in the Reptilian Kidney. PLoS One 11 , e0153422. 10.1371/journal.pone.0153422. 6. Diep, C.Q., Ma, D., Deo, R.C., Holm, T.M., Naylor, R.W., Arora, N., Wingert, R.A., Bollig, F., Djordjevic, G., Lichman, B., et al. (2011). Identification of adult nephron progenitors capable of kidney regeneration in zebrafish. Nature 470 , 95-100. 10.1038/nature09669. 7. Yu, T., Liu, X., Tan, X., Zhang, Y., He, Z., Yang, W., Tian, T., Li, Y., Zhao, J., and Liu, C. (2025). Identification of renal stem cells in zebrafish. Sci Adv 11 , eadx5296. 10.1126/sciadv.adx5296. 8. Peng, Z., Vanichapol, T., Nguyen, P.D., Chang, H.G., Kocha, K.M., O'Brien, L.L., Currie, P.D., Huang, P., and Davidson, A.J. (2025). Somites are a source of nephron progenitors in zebrafish. Nat Commun 

16 , 6914. 10.1038/s41467-025-62259-y. 9. Kamei, C.N., Sampson, W.G.B., Albertz, C., Aries, O., Wolf, A., Upadhyay, R.M., Hughes, S.M., Schenk, H., Bonnet, F., Draper, B.B.W., et al. (2026). Reciprocal inhibition of Wnt signaling pathways pattern the interconnection of epithelial tubules in the regenerating zebrafish kidney. Development 153 .10.1242/dev.205074. 10. Zhou, W., Boucher, R.C., Bollig, F., Englert, C., and Hildebrandt, F. (2010). Characterization of mesonephric development and regeneration using transgenic zebrafish. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 299 ,F1040-1047. 10.1152/ajprenal.00394.2010. 11. Tang, Q., Iyer, S., Lobbardi, R., Moore, J.C., Chen, H., Lareau, C., Hebert, C., Shaw, M.L., Neftel, C., Suva, M.L., et al. (2017). Dissecting hematopoietic and renal cell heterogeneity in adult zebrafish at single-cell resolution using RNA sequencing. J Exp Med 214 , 2875-2887. 10.1084/jem.20170976. 12. Kamei, C.N., Gallegos, T.F., Liu, Y., Hukriede, N., and Drummond, I.A. (2019). Wnt signaling mediates new nephron formation during zebrafish kidney regeneration. Development 146 . 10.1242/dev.168294. 13. Silverblatt, F.J., and Kuehn, C. (1979). Autoradiography of gentamicin uptake by the rat proximal tubule cell. Kidney Int 15 , 335-345. 10.1038/ki.1979.45. 14. Regec, A.L., Trump, B.F., and Trifillis, A.L. (1989). Effect of gentamicin on the lysosomal system of cultured human proximal tubular cells. Endocytotic activity, lysosomal pH and membrane fragility. Biochem Pharmacol 38 , 2527-2534. 10.1016/0006-2952(89)90098-1. 15. Schmitz, C., Hilpert, J., Jacobsen, C., Boensch, C., Christensen, E.I., Luft, F.C., and Willnow, T.E. (2002). Megalin deficiency offers protection from renal aminoglycoside accumulation. J Biol Chem 277 , 618-622. 10.1074/jbc.M109959200. 16. Servais, H., Jossin, Y., Van Bambeke, F., Tulkens, P.M., and Mingeot-Leclercq, M.P. (2006). Gentamicin causes apoptosis at low concentrations in renal LLC-PK1 cells subjected to electroporation. Antimicrob Agents Chemother 50 , 1213-1221. 10.1128/AAC.50.4.1213-1221.2006. 17. Gallegos, T.F., Kamei, C.N., Rohly, M., and Drummond, I.A. (2019). Fibroblast growth factor signaling mediates progenitor cell aggregation and nephron regeneration in the adult zebrafish kidney. Dev Biol 

454 , 44-51. 10.1016/j.ydbio.2019.06.011. 18. Liu, X., Yu, T., Tan, X., Jin, D., Yang, W., Zhang, J., Dai, L., He, Z., Li, D., Zhang, Y., et al. (2023). Renal interstitial cells promote nephron regeneration by secreting prostaglandin E2. Elife 12 .10.7554/eLife.81438. 19. McMahon, A.P. (2016). Development of the Mammalian Kidney. Curr Top Dev Biol 117 , 31-64. 10.1016/bs.ctdb.2015.10.010. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

20. Fan, Y., Chai, C., Li, P., Zou, X., Ferrell, J.E., Jr., and Wang, B. (2023). Ultrafast distant wound response is essential for whole-body regeneration. Cell 186 , 3606-3618 e3616. 10.1016/j.cell.2023.06.019. 21. Ramirez, A.N., Loubet-Senear, K., and Srivastava, M. (2020). A Regulatory Program for Initiation of Wnt Signaling during Posterior Regeneration. Cell Rep 32 , 108098. 10.1016/j.celrep.2020.108098. 22. Peiris, T.H., Hoyer, K.K., and Oviedo, N.J. (2014). Innate immune system and tissue regeneration in planarians: an area ripe for exploration. Semin Immunol 26 , 295-302. 10.1016/j.smim.2014.06.005. 23. Houschyar, K.S., Momeni, A., Pyles, M.N., Maan, Z.N., Whittam, A.J., and Siemers, F. (2015). Wnt signaling induces epithelial differentiation during cutaneous wound healing. Organogenesis 11 , 95-104. 10.1080/15476278.2015.1086052. 24. Petrie, T.A., Strand, N.S., Yang, C.T., Rabinowitz, J.S., and Moon, R.T. (2014). Macrophages modulate adult zebrafish tail fin regeneration. Development 141 , 2581-2591. 10.1242/dev.098459. 25. Nagashima, M., and Hitchcock, P.F. (2021). Inflammation Regulates the Multi-Step Process of Retinal Regeneration in Zebrafish. Cells 10 . 10.3390/cells10040783. 26. Silva, N.J., Nagashima, M., Li, J., Kakuk-Atkins, L., Ashrafzadeh, M., Hyde, D.R., and Hitchcock, P.F. (2020). Inflammation and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (Mmp-9) regulate photoreceptor regeneration in adult zebrafish. Glia 68 , 1445-1465. 10.1002/glia.23792. 27. Zhou, C., Zhang, X., Chen, Y., Lin, Z., Zhang, S., Zhang, Z., Cao, L., Guan, H., Lu, J., and Xu, H. (2022). Context-dependent effects of inflammation on retina regeneration. Mol Neurobiol 59 , 4351-4367. 10.1007/s12035-022-02857-9. 28. El-Sammak, H., Yang, B., Guenther, S., Chen, W., Marin-Juez, R., and Stainier, D.Y.R. (2022). A Vegfc-Emilin2a-Cxcl8a Signaling Axis Required for Zebrafish Cardiac Regeneration. Circ Res 130 , 1014-1029. 10.1161/CIRCRESAHA.121.319929. 29. John, N., Fleming, T., Kolb, J., Lyraki, O., Vasquez-Sepulveda, S., Parmar, A., Kim, K., Tarczewska, M., Gupta, P., Singh, K., et al. (2025). Biphasic inflammation control by fibroblasts enables spinal cord regeneration in zebrafish. Cell Rep 44 , 116469. 10.1016/j.celrep.2025.116469. 30. Guru, A., Sudhakaran, G., Velayutham, M., Murugan, R., Pachaiappan, R., Mothana, R.A., Noman, O.M., Juliet, A., and Arockiaraj, J. (2022). Daidzein normalized gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity and associated pro-inflammatory cytokines in MDCK and zebrafish: Possible mechanism of nephroprotection. Comp Biochem Physiol C Toxicol Pharmacol 258 , 109364. 10.1016/j.cbpc.2022.109364. 31. Kuehn, E.W., Park, K.M., Somlo, S., and Bonventre, J.V. (2002). Kidney injury molecule-1 expression in murine polycystic kidney disease. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol 283 , F1326-1336. 10.1152/ajprenal.00166.2002. 32. Spencer, C.G., Hamilton, M., Bedsole, E., Wei, Y.N., Rojas, A.M., Burciu, A., Zhu, J., Sabin, K.Z., and Shiau, C.E. (2026). Chronic macrophage activation derails muscle repair by disrupting mannose-receptor-linked plasticity revealed by endogenous irg1/acod1 tracking. Nature Communications 17 , 1466. 10.1038/s41467-025-68204-3. 33. Han, H.I., Skvarca, L.B., Espiritu, E.B., Davidson, A.J., and Hukriede, N.A. (2019). The role of macrophages during acute kidney injury: destruction and repair. Pediatr Nephrol 34 , 561-569. 10.1007/s00467-017-3883-1. 34. Hellman, N.E., Liu, Y., Merkel, E., Austin, C., Le Corre, S., Beier, D.R., Sun, Z., Sharma, N., Yoder, B.K., and Drummond, I.A. (2010). The zebrafish foxj1a transcription factor regulates cilia function in response to injury and epithelial stretch. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107 , 18499-18504. 10.1073/pnas.1005998107. 35. Torraca, V., Cui, C., Boland, R., Bebelman, J.P., van der Sar, A.M., Smit, M.J., Siderius, M., Spaink, H.P., and Meijer, A.H. (2015). The CXCR3-CXCL11 signaling axis mediates macrophage recruitment and dissemination of mycobacterial infection. Dis Model Mech 8, 253-269. 10.1242/dmm.017756. 36. Kanther, M., Sun, X., Muhlbauer, M., Mackey, L.C., Flynn, E.J., 3rd, Bagnat, M., Jobin, C., and Rawls, J.F. (2011). Microbial colonization induces dynamic temporal and spatial patterns of NF-kappaB activation in the zebrafish digestive tract. Gastroenterology 141 , 197-207. 10.1053/j.gastro.2011.03.042. 37. Sugano, Y., Cianciolo Cosentino, C., Loffing-Cueni, D., Neuhauss, S.C.F., and Loffing, J. (2017). Comparative transcriptomic analysis identifies evolutionarily conserved gene products in the vertebrate renal distal convoluted tubule. Pflugers Arch 469 , 859-867. 10.1007/s00424-017-2009-8. 38. Shin, H.M., Kim, M.H., Kim, B.H., Jung, S.H., Kim, Y.S., Park, H.J., Hong, J.T., Min, K.R., and Kim, Y. (2004). Inhibitory action of novel aromatic diamine compound on lipopolysaccharide-induced nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB without affecting IkappaB degradation. FEBS Lett 571 , 50-54. 10.1016/j.febslet.2004.06.056. 39. Dowling, D., Hamilton, C.M., and O'Neill, S.M. (2008). A comparative analysis of cytokine responses, cell 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

surface marker expression and MAPKs in DCs matured with LPS compared with a panel of TLR ligands. Cytokine 41 , 254-262. 10.1016/j.cyto.2007.11.020. 40. Forn-Cuni, G., Varela, M., Pereiro, P., Novoa, B., and Figueras, A. (2017). Conserved gene regulation during acute inflammation between zebrafish and mammals. Sci Rep 7, 41905. 10.1038/srep41905. 41. Mahomed, A.S., Burke-Gaffney, A., Moledina, S., Toe, Q.K., Shao, D., Quinlan, G.J., Rhodes, C.J., Pease, J.E., and Wort, S.J. (2025). SOX17-silenced HPAECs upregulate NF-kappaB-induced CXCL10 and CXCL11: implications for lymphocyte chemotaxis in SOX17-PAH. Sci Rep 15 , 34262. 10.1038/s41598-025-16418-2. 42. Sommer, F., Torraca, V., Kamel, S.M., Lombardi, A., and Meijer, A.H. (2020). Frontline Science: Antagonism between regular and atypical Cxcr3 receptors regulates macrophage migration during infection and injury in zebrafish. J Leukoc Biol 107 , 185-203. 10.1002/JLB.2HI0119-006R. 43. Song, Z., Bhattacharya, S., Clemens, R.A., and Dinauer, M.C. (2023). Molecular regulation of neutrophil swarming in health and disease: Lessons from the phagocyte oxidase. iScience 26 , 108034. 10.1016/j.isci.2023.108034. 44. Sommer, F., Ortiz Zacari As, N.V., Heitman, L.H., and Meijer, A.H. (2021). Inhibition of macrophage migration in zebrafish larvae demonstrates in vivo efficacy of human CCR2 inhibitors. Dev Comp Immunol 

116 , 103932. 10.1016/j.dci.2020.103932. 45. Rizo-Tellez, S.A., and Filep, J.G. (2024). Beyond host defense and tissue injury: the emerging role of neutrophils in tissue repair. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 326 , C661-C683. 10.1152/ajpcell.00652.2023. 46. Deng, Q., Yoo, S.K., Cavnar, P.J., Green, J.M., and Huttenlocher, A. (2011). Dual roles for Rac2 in neutrophil motility and active retention in zebrafish hematopoietic tissue. Dev Cell 21 , 735-745. 10.1016/j.devcel.2011.07.013. 47. An, W.F., Germain, A.R., Bishop, J.A., Nag, P.P., Metkar, S., Ketterman, J., Walk, M., Weiwer, M., Liu, X., Patnaik, D., et al. (2010). Discovery of Potent and Highly Selective Inhibitors of GSK3b. In Probe Reports from the NIH Molecular Libraries Program. 48. Major, R.J., and Poss, K.D. (2007). Zebrafish Heart Regeneration as a Model for Cardiac Tissue Repair. Drug Discov Today Dis Models 4, 219-225. 10.1016/j.ddmod.2007.09.002. 49. Godwin, J., Kuraitis, D., and Rosenthal, N. (2014). Extracellular matrix considerations for scar-free repair and regeneration: insights from regenerative diversity among vertebrates. Int J Biochem Cell Biol 56 , 47-55. 10.1016/j.biocel.2014.10.011. 50. Borthwick, L.A., Wynn, T.A., and Fisher, A.J. (2013). Cytokine mediated tissue fibrosis. Biochim Biophys Acta 1832 , 1049-1060. 10.1016/j.bbadis.2012.09.014. 51. Jamwal, V.S., Masselink, W., Crawford, K., and Murawala, P. (2026). Non-canonical muscle stem cells and other lessons from regenerative vertebrates. NPJ Regen Med. 10.1038/s41536-026-00468-9. 52. Tajer, B., Savage, A.M., and Whited, J.L. (2023). The salamander blastema within the broader context of metazoan regeneration. Front Cell Dev Biol 11 , 1206157. 10.3389/fcell.2023.1206157. 53. Mescher, A.L., Neff, A.W., and King, M.W. (2017). Inflammation and immunity in organ regeneration. Dev Comp Immunol 66 , 98-110. 10.1016/j.dci.2016.02.015. 54. Kolodziejczyk, A.A., Federici, S., Zmora, N., Mohapatra, G., Dori-Bachash, M., Hornstein, S., Leshem, A., Reuveni, D., Zigmond, E., Tobar, A., et al. (2020). Acute liver failure is regulated by MYC- and microbiome-dependent programs. Nat Med 26 , 1899-1911. 10.1038/s41591-020-1102-2. 55. Zhao, L., Jin, Y., Donahue, K., Tsui, M., Fish, M., Logan, C.Y., Wang, B., and Nusse, R. (2019). Tissue Repair in the Mouse Liver Following Acute Carbon Tetrachloride Depends on Injury-Induced Wnt/beta-Catenin Signaling. Hepatology 69 , 2623-2635. 10.1002/hep.30563. 56. Kangale, L.J., Raoult, D., Fournier, P.E., Abnave, P., and Ghigo, E. (2021). Planarians (Platyhelminthes)-An Emerging Model Organism for Investigating Innate Immune Mechanisms. Front Cell Infect Microbiol 

11 , 619081. 10.3389/fcimb.2021.619081. 57. Roehl, H.H. (2018). Linking wound response and inflammation to regeneration in the zebrafish larval fin. Int J Dev Biol 62 , 473-477. 10.1387/ijdb.170331hr. 58. Mitchell, D.M., Lovel, A.G., and Stenkamp, D.L. (2018). Dynamic changes in microglial and macrophage characteristics during degeneration and regeneration of the zebrafish retina. J Neuroinflammation 15 ,163. 10.1186/s12974-018-1185-6. 59. Kyritsis, N., Kizil, C., Zocher, S., Kroehne, V., Kaslin, J., Freudenreich, D., Iltzsche, A., and Brand, M. (2012). Acute inflammation initiates the regenerative response in the adult zebrafish brain. Science 338 ,1353-1356. 10.1126/science.1228773. 60. Hui, S.P., Sengupta, D., Lee, S.G., Sen, T., Kundu, S., Mathavan, S., and Ghosh, S. (2014). Genome 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

wide expression profiling during spinal cord regeneration identifies comprehensive cellular responses in zebrafish. PLoS One 9, e84212. 10.1371/journal.pone.0084212. 61. Huang, W.C., Yang, C.C., Chen, I.H., Liu, Y.M., Chang, S.J., and Chuang, Y.J. (2013). Treatment of Glucocorticoids Inhibited Early Immune Responses and Impaired Cardiac Repair in Adult Zebrafish. PLoS One 8, e66613. 10.1371/journal.pone.0066613. 62. Lai, S.L., Marin-Juez, R., and Stainier, D.Y.R. (2019). Immune responses in cardiac repair and regeneration: a comparative point of view. Cell Mol Life Sci 76 , 1365-1380. 10.1007/s00018-018-2995-5. 63. Carroll, T.J., Park, J.S., Hayashi, S., Majumdar, A., and McMahon, A.P. (2005). Wnt9b plays a central role in the regulation of mesenchymal to epithelial transitions underlying organogenesis of the mammalian urogenital system. Dev Cell 9, 283-292. 10.1016/j.devcel.2005.05.016. 64. Brown, A.C., Muthukrishnan, S.D., and Oxburgh, L. (2015). A synthetic niche for nephron progenitor cells. Dev Cell 34 , 229-241. 10.1016/j.devcel.2015.06.021. 65. Takasato, M., Er, P.X., Becroft, M., Vanslambrouck, J.M., Stanley, E.G., Elefanty, A.G., and Little, M.H. (2014). Directing human embryonic stem cell differentiation towards a renal lineage generates a self-organizing kidney. Nat Cell Biol 16 , 118-126. 10.1038/ncb2894. 66. Morizane, R., and Bonventre, J.V. (2017). Generation of nephron progenitor cells and kidney organoids from human pluripotent stem cells. Nat Protoc 12 , 195-207. 10.1038/nprot.2016.170. 67. Aurora, A.B., and Olson, E.N. (2014). Immune modulation of stem cells and regeneration. Cell Stem Cell 

15 , 14-25. 10.1016/j.stem.2014.06.009. 68. Gerhardt, L.M.S., Liu, J., Koppitch, K., Cippa, P.E., and McMahon, A.P. (2021). Single-nuclear transcriptomics reveals diversity of proximal tubule cell states in a dynamic response to acute kidney injury. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 118 . 10.1073/pnas.2026684118. 69. Zhou, D., Tan, R.J., Fu, H., and Liu, Y. (2016). Wnt/beta-catenin signaling in kidney injury and repair: a double-edged sword. Lab Invest 96 , 156-167. 10.1038/labinvest.2015.153. 70. Maarouf, O.H., Aravamudhan, A., Rangarajan, D., Kusaba, T., Zhang, V., Welborn, J., Gauvin, D., Hou, X., Kramann, R., and Humphreys, B.D. (2016). Paracrine Wnt1 Drives Interstitial Fibrosis without Inflammation by Tubulointerstitial Cross-Talk. J Am Soc Nephrol 27 , 781-790. 10.1681/ASN.2014121188. 71. Meng, X.M., Nikolic-Paterson, D.J., and Lan, H.Y. (2016). TGF-beta: the master regulator of fibrosis. Nat Rev Nephrol 12 , 325-338. 10.1038/nrneph.2016.48. 72. Hu, B., Lelek, S., Spanjaard, B., El-Sammak, H., Simoes, M.G., Mintcheva, J., Aliee, H., Schafer, R., Meyer, A.M., Theis, F., et al. (2022). Origin and function of activated fibroblast states during zebrafish heart regeneration. Nat Genet 54 , 1227-1237. 10.1038/s41588-022-01129-5. 73. Wang, X., Giusti, A., Ny, A., and de Witte, P.A. (2020). Nephrotoxic Effects in Zebrafish after Prolonged Exposure to Aristolochic Acid. Toxins (Basel) 12 . 10.3390/toxins12040217. 74. Hasegawa, T., Hall, C.J., Crosier, P.S., Abe, G., Kawakami, K., Kudo, A., and Kawakami, A. (2017). Transient inflammatory response mediated by interleukin-1beta is required for proper regeneration in zebrafish fin fold. Elife 6. 10.7554/eLife.22716. 75. Lavine, K.J., Epelman, S., Uchida, K., Weber, K.J., Nichols, C.G., Schilling, J.D., Ornitz, D.M., Randolph, G.J., and Mann, D.L. (2014). Distinct macrophage lineages contribute to disparate patterns of cardiac recovery and remodeling in the neonatal and adult heart. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111 , 16029-16034. 10.1073/pnas.1406508111. 76. Debuque, R.J., Nowoshilow, S., Chan, K.E., Rosenthal, N.A., and Godwin, J.W. (2022). Distinct toll-like receptor signaling in the salamander response to tissue damage. Dev Dyn 251 , 988-1003. 10.1002/dvdy.340. 77. Tadokoro, T., Wang, Y., Barak, L.S., Bai, Y., Randell, S.H., and Hogan, B.L. (2014). IL-6/STAT3 promotes regeneration of airway ciliated cells from basal stem cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111 , E3641-3649. 10.1073/pnas.1409781111. 78. Singh, A., Beaupre, M., Villegas-Novoa, C., Shiomitsu, K., Gaudino, S.J., Tawch, S., Damle, R., Kempen, C., Choudhury, B., McAleer, J.P., et al. (2024). IL-22 promotes mucin-type O-glycosylation and MATH1(+) cell-mediated amelioration of intestinal inflammation. Cell Rep 43 , 114206. 10.1016/j.celrep.2024.114206. 79. Lindemans, C.A., Calafiore, M., Mertelsmann, A.M., O'Connor, M.H., Dudakov, J.A., Jenq, R.R., Velardi, E., Young, L.F., Smith, O.M., Lawrence, G., et al. (2015). Interleukin-22 promotes intestinal-stem-cell-mediated epithelial regeneration. Nature 528 , 560-564. 10.1038/nature16460. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

80. Chugh, R.M., Bhanja, P., Zitter, R., Gunewardena, S., Badkul, R., and Saha, S. (2025). Modulation of beta-Catenin promotes WNT expression in macrophages and mitigates intestinal injury. Cell Commun Signal 23 , 78. 10.1186/s12964-025-02065-7. 81. Westerfield, M. (1993). The zebrafish book : a guide for the laboratory use of zebrafish (Brachydanio rerio) (M. Westerfield). 82. Ellett, F., Pase, L., Hayman, J.W., Andrianopoulos, A., and Lieschke, G.J. (2011). mpeg1 promoter transgenes direct macrophage-lineage expression in zebrafish. Blood 117 , e49-56. 10.1182/blood-2010-10-314120. 83. Mathias, J.R., Perrin, B.J., Liu, T.X., Kanki, J., Look, A.T., and Huttenlocher, A. (2006). Resolution of inflammation by retrograde chemotaxis of neutrophils in transgenic zebrafish. J Leukoc Biol 80 , 1281-1288. 10.1189/jlb.0506346. 84. Kamei, C.N., Liu, Y., and Drummond, I.A. (2015). Kidney Regeneration in Adult Zebrafish by Gentamicin Induced Injury. J Vis Exp, e51912. 10.3791/51912. 85. Thisse, B., Heyer, V., Lux, A., Alunni, V., Degrave, A., Seiliez, I., Kirchner, J., Parkhill, J.P., and Thisse, C. (2004). Spatial and temporal expression of the zebrafish genome by large-scale in situ hybridization screening. Methods Cell Biol 77 , 505-519. 10.1016/s0091-679x(04)77027-2. 86. Yates, A.D., Austine-Orimoloye, O., Azov, A.G., Barba, M., Barnes, I., Barrera-Enriquez, V.P., Becker, A., Bennett, R., Berry, A., Bhai, J., et al. (2026). Ensembl 2026. Nucleic Acids Res 54 , D1053-d1060. 10.1093/nar/gkaf1239. 87. Dobin, A., Davis, C.A., Schlesinger, F., Drenkow, J., Zaleski, C., Jha, S., Batut, P., Chaisson, M., and Gingeras, T.R. (2013). STAR: ultrafast universal RNA-seq aligner. Bioinformatics 29 , 15-21. 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts635. 88. Patro, R., Duggal, G., Love, M.I., Irizarry, R.A., and Kingsford, C. (2017). Salmon provides fast and bias-aware quantification of transcript expression. Nature Methods 14 , 417-419. 10.1038/nmeth.4197. 89. Love, M.I., Huber, W., and Anders, S. (2014). Moderated estimation of fold change and dispersion for RNA-seq data with DESeq2. Genome Biol 15 , 550. 10.1186/s13059-014-0550-8. 

> (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted April 10, 2026. ;https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.04.08.717325 doi: bioRxiv preprint

Figure1 A B

C D

uninj 2d pi

10d pi

gl

*

Figure2 

kim1 :mS carlet

10KD extran

kim1 :mS carlet

10KD extran

kim1 :mS carlet

10KD extran

kim1 :mS carlet

10KD extranE dU

pt

4d pi

4d piE F

cdh17:mC herrymp eg:GFP

phalloidin

mp x:GFP

*

*

2d pi 1d piFigure3 

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

Control 1d pi 2d pi

> Day0 Control
> Day1 gent.injured
> Day2 gent.injured
> Enzyma tictubulev s.ma rrowfractionation
> RNAe xtraction
> BulkR NAs eq.

sma llmo leculeme tabolicprocess

peptideme tabolicprocess

coenzymeb iosyntheticprocess

organicacidc atabolicprocess

regulationo fprima ryme tabolicprocess

intracellulartransport

ncRNAme tabolicprocess

cilium o rganization

immu nes ystem p rocess

A

B

C

> Tubu

tubulef raction ma rrow f raction2d pi

gl

pt

NF-κB:eGFP

A PBS

pt

NF-κB:eGFP

B

gl

3d pi 3d pi+J SH-23

gl

C

pt

NF-κB:eGFP

lhx1a:eGFP

D

lhx1a:eGFP lhx1a:eGFP

E F7d piPBS 7d pi+J SH-23

G

Figure4 Control

Control

LPS7 dpi

LPS7 dpi

lhx1a

wnt9b

LPS7 dpi LPS1 4dpi

Figure5 

LPS1 0dpi

A B C

D

F G IH

EdU

lhx1a:eGFP

EdU

lhx1a:eGFP

EdU

lhx1a:eGFP

EdU

lhx1a:eGFP

Dextran

> gl

lhx1a:GFP

E LPS7 dpiT

T

control +C XCL11 +C XCL11

+C XCL11+P D166866

lhx1a:eGFP

lhx1a:eGFP

lhx1a:eGFP lhx1a:eGFPD BA

DT

Figure6 

D E F

G H I

CA B

cxcl11.6 cxcl11.6 cxcl11.6

control 4d pi 4d pilhx1a dXVp6

:L lGt\SH :L lGt\SH+ JHnt 5DcD1 + JHnt

Q R+CXCL11 +CXCL11+ C+,5

D7D7

lhx1a:eGFP lhx1a:eGFP

cxcl11 IJI4 IJI1a dXVp6

ZntE leI1 lhx1a Znt4

Figure7 

A B C D

E F G H

I J K L

M N O P